The Project Gutenberg eBook of On a lark to the planets, by Frances
Trego  Montgomery

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: On a lark to the planets
       a sequel to "the wonderful electric elephant"

Author: Frances Trego  Montgomery

Illustrator: Winifred D.  Elrod

Release Date: December 25, 2022 [eBook #69637]

Language: English

Produced by: Richard Tonsing and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from
             images generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ON A LARK TO THE
PLANETS ***


[Illustration:

  WHITE PIGEONS HERALDED THE APPROACH OF VENUS

  (p. 164)
]




                        ON A LARK TO THE PLANETS


                             _A SEQUEL TO_
                  “_The Wonderful Electric Elephant_”


                                  _BY_
                        FRANCES TREGO MONTGOMERY

                              _Author of_
   “Billy Whiskers” “Billy Whiskers’ Kids” “Billy Whiskers, Jr.” Etc.


                   _Illustrated by WINIFRED D. ELROD_


                              AKRON, OHIO
                      THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING CO.
                   NEW YORK      _1904_      CHICAGO




                            COPYRIGHT, 1904,
                  By THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY

       MADE BY
 THE WERNER COMPANY
     AKRON, OHIO




                         LOVINGLY DEDICATED TO

                         JULIET MARIE BREITUNG




                             ILLUSTRATIONS.


                                                                PAGE
   White pigeons heralded the approach of Venus,      _Frontispiece_
   They found them enclosed in little jeweled acorns,             26
   Coming toward them were two beautiful beings,                  50
   The giant raised his sword,                                    76
   They reminded one of the alchemists of old,                   100
   They were soon gliding through canal after canal,             126
   All the choruses are heavenly and harmonious,                 150




                               CHAPTER I.


Nearer and nearer toward strange and unexplored regions, higher and
higher sailed the Wonderful Elephant, borne along by the great silken
balloon. Harold and Ione, the Prince and the little Princess slept
peacefully.

It was midnight by the hands of the clock, but the boundless aerial
space through which they sped was lighted by myriads upon myriads of
twinkling stars. On and still on through diamond-specked space the
Elephant floated safely. Above, below, to right, to left, and round
about in all directions, flashing, glittering globes of light were to be
seen and of such dazzling hues and colors as had never been dreamed of
by earth-bound mortals. The planet Neptune was wrapped in a bluish-green
vapor; Uranus seemed a blinding white; Saturn emitted a yellow light;
Jupiter shone like a glorious, crimson jewel; Mars blazed forth fiery
red beams, while Mercury seemed bathed in a metallic green color.

Our young travelers had watched these silent orbs until from sheer
exhaustion they had fallen asleep. Suddenly, with a quick jerk, the
balloon came to a dead halt.

“Mercy, what can be the matter!” said Ione, springing up. “Do you
suppose that the balloon can’t carry us any higher?”

“I am sure I don’t know,” answered Harold, only half awake, “still it
can’t be that, for the old man said he had visited Mars and several
other planets. Something must be out of order, however. Wait until I
look in his book of directions and find what ought to be done.”

While Harold consulted the book, they all waited in great suspense, for
what would become of them all should the balloon fail to carry them on?
Their anxiety was soon set at rest, however, for this is what Harold
found in the book:

“The atmosphere extends some forty miles above the earth, then an
imaginary line is reached beyond which the forces of the earth cease to
act; while the Sun, by its great power of attraction, draws everything
toward it with irresistible force. If you wish to cross this line and
pass upward, use extra pressure and inflate the balloon to its utmost
capacity. It will then carry you across and you will find that you are
attracted toward the Sun, as before you were attracted toward the earth.
Steer for any planet which you wish to visit and you can safely land
upon it.”

When Harold stopped reading there was dead silence for a few minutes,
then he said, “Prince, will you kindly press that electric button at
your right? We can then watch the balloon inflate and carry us over the
line.”

Slowly but surely, with much creaking and crackling of the silken cover,
the balloon became fully inflated, while the little Princess with
strained, frightened eyes watched through one of the peep-holes, in
mortal terror lest at each creak it might burst and they be hurled to
the earth.

No such thing happened, but instead, the balloon gave a sudden bound and
commenced rising at an alarming rate of speed; in fact, so fast were
they approaching the Moon that they feared they would dash against one
of its mountain tops. Harold found on consulting their time-indicator
that they were traveling at a rate of speed equal to that of a ray of
light, which is one hundred and sixty thousand miles per second. And it
takes light moving at that rate of speed eight minutes and seven seconds
to reach the earth.

“Look, every one look!” cried Ione. “What is that glistening, sparkling
light that seems to ripple and flow like a stream of water?”

“It is the Milky Way,” said Harold. “From the earth it looks like
millions upon billions of stars sweeping a pathway through the heavens,
but now that we are nearer, it seems like one continuous stream of
silver fire.”

“Isn’t it perfectly beautiful?” exclaimed the girls in chorus.

Looming up before them was what appeared to be a large red island that
floated in the heavens as a pond lily floats upon the surface of water.
It seemed to get its color, not from anything red upon the island
itself, but from red rays of light that fell directly upon it from the
planet Mars.

Far in the distance floated other cloud-islands, each bathed in a color
corresponding to the hue of the planet from which the rays came. They
afterward found that these islands accompanied the different planets in
their orbits much as our Moon does the earth. From the earth they have
the appearance of stars, not islands.

Look in what direction one would, countless flashing rainbow islands
could be seen whirling and twirling in fantastic manner like giant
spinning wheels, forming geometric figures of every conceivable design
as they sped on their way, while through them all, in imposing, majestic
lines swept the planets.

“What do you say to our first visiting the island of Mercury, that being
the one nearest the sun, and then taking the others in order?” said
Harold.

They all agreed to this plan.

“Now, I am going to state a few astronomical facts, dull as you may find
them, for they are things you all should know, and I think the girls
have little conception of the millions of miles distant these planets
are, or of their size and the time it takes for light from them to reach
us.

“Now, just out of curiosity I am going to ask you how large you think
these planets are which you look at every night, and how far away they
seem. I advise you to begin your guessing about Venus, as it is best
seen from here.”

“Well, let me see,” said Ione; “Venus looks to be about the size of a
cheese, but, of course, I know that in reality it is almost as large as
the earth.”

“Now, princess, what do you say?”

“It looks to me to be about the size of a barrel-head and that it is
twice as large as the earth.”

“You are both wrong, and to show you how much you are in error, here are
a few figures. Mercury is thirty-six million miles distant from the sun
and it takes eighty-eight days to make one revolution in its orbit round
the sun, consequently its year is only eighty-eight days, instead of
three hundred, sixty-five and one quarter days as ours is. Wouldn’t you
like to live where the years were that long? Then you could have four
Christmas Days where now you have but one,” said Harold.

“Mercury,” he continued, “has the shortest year of all of the planets
and Neptune the longest, its year being sixty thousand, one hundred and
twenty-six days in length. Just think, if you lived upon Neptune you
would have a Christmas once in about nineteen years reckoned by our
time. The length of year varies with the other planets—but enough of
statistics. I know they are uninteresting to girls. How would it please
you to hurry on to Mercury’s Satellite Island to see what it looks like
and if it is inhabited?”

“I am sure it is inhabited,” said the Prince, who was looking through
the telescope, “for I can see tall figures moving along its shore.”

Faster and faster sailed the balloon, dragging the Elephant after it
until they were within a minute’s distance from the island. Bathed in
beautiful clear, greenish-white atmosphere, hundreds of people were
standing on the beach of the island, which is swept by mighty currents
of air even as our sea shores are swept by the tides, and were watching
the approach of the queer-shaped, clumsy object from an unknown world. A
little jolt and the Elephant’s feet touched the shore.




                              CHAPTER II.


At first our young people kept still and peered through the peep-holes
to get a good view of the strangers, but for some moments few were to be
seen, as most of their number had darted away with lightning-like speed
when the Elephant landed. To attempt to describe the swiftness with
which these people moved and the ease with which they darted here, there
and everywhere would be difficult. No wonder that they were quick,
lively and elusive for they had strange little wings on their caps and
sandals, such as you have seen on statues of the winged Mercury. Tall
and handsome with beautiful foreheads and quick flashing eyes, they
fluttered and flew about like so many birds.

Those who had disappeared soon returned and approached the Elephant, for
they seemed fearless people after all, and then our young travelers
slipped into their new white robes, which, by the way, I forgot to tell
you about. They had found them enclosed in little jeweled acorns, which
they thought were only watch-charms, but accidentally having touched a
hidden spring in one, it opened and out fell a robe. They were fine as
cobweb, soft as silk, changeable as the colors of a soap bubble and had
the wonderful properties of making one invisible, giving one any outward
appearance one might wish to assume, and at the same time enabling one
to understand any language spoken within hearing. After donning these
magic garments they found they were dressed like the little Mercurians,
even to the wings on their heads and feet. They also found that they
could understand all that was said by these sprightly people, for their
language consisted entirely of short words and abbreviations. You must
remember that these people are always in a hurry so have no time for
long words or expressions. When asked what their chief occupations were,
one of the inhabitants answered that they consisted almost entirely in
conveying messages between the earth and the planets. “We also watch
over the people on earth upon whom the rays of Mercury fell at the
moment of their birth. They possess the nature and characteristics that
the influence of this planet is said to impart and so are our especial
proteges.”

“What are some of these characteristics?” said Harold.

“When not afflicted; that is, when no ray from an evil planet crosses
the Mercurian ray, Mercury gives one a quick, sprightly manner, fluent
speech, quick wit, bright intellect, and fondness for change and travel.
These characteristics are greatly modified when cross-rays intervene
from evil planets, and then one is unreliable, a busybody, has a sharp
unkind word or a sneer for every one.”

“Oh, my! I hope no bad ray crossed my Mercurian ray at birth,” said
Ione.

“You need not fear,” answered one of the island people; “you were born
under a ray from Venus.”

“Goodness! How do you know that?” asked Ione.

“By your face. We planet people can tell the moment we see a person what
planet or planets influenced at birth.”

“Can you really?” asked Ione.

The Islander continued, “One of you give me the year, month, day, and
hour in which you were born and I will tell you your nature,
disposition, abilities, and whether you are destined to be healthy or
unhealthy too, and whether you will be what is termed lucky or unlucky.”

Harold gave him his birth data and in return was told that he was
ambitious, venturesome, loving, kind, thoughtful, quick-witted,
far-seeing, healthy, extremely lucky, and very fond of travel.

That Harold was all of this his companions well knew, but how a perfect
stranger could tell by learning his date of birth and barely looking at
him was more than they could at once understand. The stranger finally
told them that he did so by the science called astrology, which all
star-people believe in, but which comparatively few people on earth
seriously study today. It was held in great respect by the ancients, and
even less than a hundred years ago, during Napoleon’s life, many
believed in the science and what it foretold for the future. Napoleon
and Henry of Navarre both believed in what they called their lucky star
and would consult an astrologer before undertaking any important venture
to see whether or not they would be successful.

The self-appointed guide and informer of our young friends, having
learned something of their history, became deeply interested in the
party and asked if they would not like to visit the interior of the
island to see just how its inhabitants lived. They gladly signified
their pleasure to do so, and what was their joy to find that they could
fly over the ground with their artificial wings quite as easily as the
native Mercurians.

As they sped along, many things were explained to them concerning the
various solar systems and especially the one we call ours. This they
learned consists of the Sun, Moon, Mercury, Mars, Venus, Earth, Jupiter,
Saturn, Uranus and Neptune, with accompanying satellites, besides
innumerable fixed and moving stars; and ours is only one of many solar
systems.

One of the things the guide pointed out filled the party with awe and
wonder. Reflected on the clear blue vault above them was a continuous
moving panorama of everything that was taking place upon the earth
beneath them. Time and space seemed to be done away with. Did they wish
to see what was transpiring in any country, all they had to do was to
wish, and as if by magic the picture was above them. Simply by looking
up they could see all they desired reflected there; the country, its
people, just what they were all doing; the whole living scene. As it
happened a war was being waged in Asia. They could see the approach of
the armies, could watch the progress of the battle, could almost count
the number slain; and, still greater miracle, with the wish to know the
cause of any war or of any event of past history, instantly came the
knowledge—all was made clear. The picture of the present could be made
to fade at their will and that of the past to take its place on the
vault above them or to float by on flying clouds panorama-like.

When their surprise and amazement had partially subsided the Prince
said, “Well, this is the most glorious way of learning history that I
ever heard of. If our schools on earth could make moving pictures of the
leading events in history pass before the children’s eyes, they would be
able to remember much better than by sitting and committing to memory a
lot of dry facts and dates.” And all agreed with him.

“Just for fun, let us wish to see what country we are over now,” said
Ione, and immediately they saw North America, the particular spot being
Chicago. They all gazed with interest upon the City by the Lake with its
high buildings, and hurrying, scurrying people. The cloud above floated
slowly along displaying different parts of the city and its surrounding
parks and suburbs.

“Now, let us see Siam and find out what my brother is doing,” said the
Prince, and immediately Chicago with its hustle and bustle faded from
view and in its place stood the beautiful white palace of Siam.
Presently was revealed to them the Prince sitting in state in all his
robes of splendor enjoying his power to the utmost, for unlike our
Prince he was fond of pomp and splendor.

“Let us see a picture showing what became of the Prince and Princess,”
said Harold.

[Illustration:

  THEY FOUND THEM ENCLOSED IN LITTLE JEWELED ACORNS

  (p. 20)
]

The next view presented the Elephant rising from the earth, drawn
heavenward by a huge balloon.

“Well, this beats any detective agency I ever heard of,” said Harold.
“You lose a thing or it disappears and all you have to do to find it is
to wish to know where it is and there a picture of the object and place
appears before you.”

“Are you now ready to go on and see something of our island?” said the
guide presently, who had been patiently waiting for them to recover from
their amazement at all they saw.

“Certainly, and we beg your pardon for keeping you waiting so long, but
you can have no idea how fascinating we have found all these strange
things.”

“What is that bright yellow light we see surrounded by those smaller
different colored lights and luminous belt?” asked the Princess.

“That is the planet Saturn with its five satellites and luminous belt,
and do you see floating under it, a little to the left, a dim, yellow
light that looks like a reflection from that same planet?” said the
guide.

“Yes,” they answered.

“That is another island like the one we are on now, only it is under the
rays of Saturn, as we are under the rays of Mercury. It is also called
the Island of Knowledge, because the people of Saturn’s land are very
intellectual. Now that you are up here you should visit all of our
islands in turn and see for yourself what they and their people are
like. First allow me to make a suggestion,” continued the guide. “Leave
your heavy Elephant on our island, as you will have no use for the
balloon until you wish to return to Earth. At present avail yourself of
our means of locomotion.”

“A splendid suggestion!” they all exclaimed, “But how can we with our
heavy bodies of flesh expect to fly around as you people do?”

“Come with me and I will show you.”

The guide secured a pair of scales and each one in turn having been
weighed, they found that no one exceeded five pounds in weight.

“Your scales must be wrong,” exclaimed Harold.

“Oh, no, it is only because your bodies become lighter in this
atmosphere, though they look the same as ever. Your magic robes will
bear you up while your wings are carrying you from place to place.

“You will have to take our Flying Machines to reach many places at great
distances from here, or else a boat on the Milky Way. I would advise
you, after visiting all of our planet islands, to take what is called
‘The Circle Trip.’ That is a trip in a beautiful boat up the Milky Way,
which encircles the heavens like a belt. You are borne along on its
silvery waters in little shell-like boats to whatever place you wish to
visit along its shores, for you must know that both sides of the stream
are lined with cities, towns, villages, meadows, hills, and mountains,
where people live as Earth people do beside their seas and rivers.”

“How perfectly entrancing it would be to visit all of the cities and
islands you have up here among the stars!” said Ione. “And just think of
it! we on Earth when looking at the little twinkling stars above us
imagine them to be only bright, silvery balls of light, and now we find
them inhabited. Will wonders ever cease?”

“Not while you are up here,” said the guide. “They will go on increasing
until you will feel as if your very brain would crack in trying to grasp
them all. Now, if you don’t mind,” said he, presently, “we will rise a
hundred feet or so above the surface here, then you can look down and
view our home from above as we fly over it on our way to other islands.”

As they floated along they noticed large quick-silver mines and also
those from which emeralds and other green stones were taken, besides
large quarries of red marble. The trees they passed were all short and
had but few leaves upon them, but there were quantities of hazelnut
bushes loaded with nuts. All animals seemed to be fleet-footed, quick in
motion, and sly like the weasel, fox and ape. The birds were not
beautiful in plumage but the exceptional sweetness of their song rivaled
that of our nightingale or thrush.

“Excuse me, but did you hear that peculiar whistle?” asked the guide.
“That is a signal for me to go to Venus with a message. Would you like
to accompany me or would you prefer to wait here? I will not say rest,
for no one is ever tired in this atmosphere and it is only Earth people
who understand the meaning of the word tired.”

“Oh, let us go by all means,” exclaimed Harold. “That is, if it would
not inconvenience you, for you would show us the way and we could be
learning how to fly with our new wings and robes.”

“Oh, mercy,” exclaimed the little Princess, “I will be afraid to follow
you from this island out into space. Think of it! Should my robe fail to
hold me up I would fall headlong as Lucifer did.”

“Don’t be afraid, my dear Princess. We will stand on either side of you
until you gain confidence in yourself, besides you must remember that
you could not fall with this magic robe about you and your wings will
move themselves. Of course, you could go by simply wishing yourself
there, but then you would see nothing by the way, while, by going in
this way and more slowly, you can enjoy all the marvelous sights about
you.”




                              CHAPTER III.


In the near distance they saw Venus, a superb sapphire globe called the
Planet of Love and beyond it Mars with his fiery light; then Saturn
yellow as an orange; Jupiter all crimson and purple, and farther still,
Uranus scintillating with a vivid white light, while at an immeasurable
distance Neptune was wrapped in changing shades of blue and green.

The Earth party with their guide passed quickly by the little
vari-colored stars and the larger ones which formed the different
constellations or groups of stars through which they were traveling,
such as the Great Bear, the Pleiades, Leo, and others too numerous to
mention, until they came to the satellite island belonging to Venus.
Here they landed and mingled with the inhabitants, first expressing the
wish that they become like the planet natives so they could go about
unnoticed. This wish their accommodating robes immediately made possible
and then they stood dressed in loose flowing Greek robes, with sandals
on their feet and hair dressed in a Psyche knot or in clustering curls
confined by golden bands.

“My! how becoming that costume is to you. You look like Venus herself
come to life,” exclaimed the Princess to Ione.

“Well, I can return the compliment a hundredfold,” answered Ione, “for I
never saw you look more lovely than you do now with your dark loose
ringlets held in place by that band of gold.”

“She certainly does look lovely enough to kiss,” exclaimed the Prince,
“and I think I will steal one, for who has a better right?”

“Ione, you really look more beautiful than you did when we were married,
and that I thought impossible,” laughed Harold.

The boys had been so taken up admiring the girls that they had forgotten
to wish their clothes changed until Ione reminded them.

“Hurry and change your costumes for I am dying to see how you will
appear in the ancient Greek dress with bare neck, arms, and legs and
with your feet encased in high laced sandals.”

When Harold’s ordinary American clothes were changed for those of
ancient Greece, Ione said, “Oh, Harold, you look like a young gladiator
with your well-developed muscles and strong round throat. As for the
Prince he is a perfect Adonis. Don’t you think so, Princess?”

Before the latter could answer their Mercurian guide said, “You
certainly are a fine-looking quartette. I doubt if even on this island
we find any who surpass you in beauty or in strength, though this is the
land where the perfection of physical beauty is supposed to be found.”

“We thank you for the compliment,” said Ione.

This conversation took place in a beautiful park where winding paths led
to sylvan retreats; where miniature lakes were studded with
pleasure-boats, sailing slowly along filled with happy, laughing people;
where flowers of every hue and color filled the air with sweet, spicy
perfumes; and where birds of endless variety and color of plumage bathed
in the sparkling fountains or flitted and sang among the branches of the
trees. Coming toward them, hand in hand along one of the many footpaths,
were two beautiful beings accompanied by little flying cupids who at
times lighted on their shoulders, then again on their heads, or flew
about chasing each other, cooing like so many white doves.

“Is not that a pretty family group?” asked the guide. “The two who are
walking hand in hand are husband and wife while the little cupids are
their children. All children on this island have wings and at night
sleep in huge nodding flowers which fold their petals about them and
sway to and fro until they are lulled to sleep.”

At this moment the two approached and the guide introduced them to the
young strangers. Having cordially welcomed the Earth party to the
island, they invited them to a four o’clock tea at their home and also
for a sail on the lake to which they were now on their way.

Our young people gladly availed themselves of the courtesy extended to
them and after walking a short distance through a shady wood they came
to the bank of a gleaming blue lake whose rippling waters flashed back
the sparkling sunbeams, and on whose surface floated unique and dainty
pleasure-boats. Into one of these they stepped and soon were sailing
quietly along, enjoying both the refreshing breezes and the beauty of
the scene. The shore line was dotted with villas which looked like
fairy-palaces, so exquisite were they in coloring and design, while back
of them rose purple-hued hills, a most effective background. While they
sailed our young people told their new friends something of themselves
and their experiences while traveling in space. All was listened to with
intense interest. When they had finished telling about the magic power
of their wishing-robes, their entertainers asked if they would mind
exhibiting themselves in their native costumes.

“Certainly not,” said Ione, “we would be delighted to do so, but our
garments will seem strange and perhaps even ridiculous to you. If they
do, you may laugh as much as ever you like for I assure you we will not
be offended in the least.”

“One, two, three. Presto change,” said Harold, and there stood four
oddly attired people looking unlike anything their Venus friends had
ever seen or dreamed of. They might have been mistaken for figures of
wax shown in a museum but that Ione laughed outright when she saw the
wide-open eyes and astonished expressions on the faces of their friends.

“Well, how do you like our native garments?” she asked. “You know that
the Prince and the Princess live on one continent of the Earth, while
Harold and I live on another and that accounts for the differences in
our style of dress.”

“Which style do you prefer?” asked the Princess of the beautiful little
lady from Venus.

“Oh, yours,” she replied. “Your attire is much more artistic and natural
than the other more sombre garb. Your white blouse, blue velvet jacket
embroidered with gold, soft silken sash, golden anklets, and slippers
turned up at the toes, all are harmonious and beautiful I think, while
the white turban of the Prince and his white skirts held in place by
that knotted sash, and the dagger at his side, all are more to my taste
than those queer-looking narrow bags which you (turning to Harold) wear,
and which you call trousers or than that high, stiff starched garment
you call a shirt. How you can breathe one minute in it is more than I
can tell, while I should think the collar would saw your ears off.”

At this they all laughed for they could well understand how funny and
absurd their costumes must look to any one used only to loose robes and
soft, clinging draperies. As for Ione, the Islanders wondered why she
did not break in two, locked in her steel girdle as they called her
corsets. And her French-heeled shoes! They were the limit of absurdity
and how she managed to walk and not fall on her nose at every step she
took was more than they could understand. The planet people had a great
deal of fun over each separate garment and seemed to enjoy inspecting
them so much that our young friends decided to give them a surprise and
at the same time to show them sights which no native of Venus, alive or
dead, had ever before witnessed. They were told to look overhead and
there soon appeared reproduced there, panorama-like, the different
peoples of the earth. In this way could be seen the native costumes of
all Earth people from the Chinaman to the fashionable French woman.

The Venusians clapped their hands with delight as the different views
passed before them for they had not known that there were people who
looked or dressed so unlike themselves.

On their way to the Villa where they were to take tea, the Venusians
asked our friends if they would not like to walk through the garden
where their little cupid babies slept, while they looked to see that
they were all tucked in their flower-beds warm and safe for the night.
“Over each baby a white pigeon keeps watch so that if anything is wanted
or if they cry out, the bird flies to our window, taps, and we
immediately come to see what is needed.”

“Oh, may we have just one peep?” cried the girls, as they leaned over a
large white rose in which was curled up fast asleep a tiny little cupid
with light, curly hair.

“You see,” explained the mother, “the little blonde cupids sleep in
white flowers while the brunettes repose in red ones. In this way it is
easy to distinguish them. Every evening at sundown they fly to their
particular flower and cuddle down for the night, while a gentle breeze
sways the flowers and nightingales sing until they are lulled to sleep.”

“What would I not give for one of the little dimpled darlings,” said
Ione.

“And I, too,” added the Princess. “I should love to have one all my own
to hug and kiss.”

“Some day a stork or an angel may bring you one,” said the little
cupid’s mother, “for I know they often take babies to Earth.”

The Villa looked more like a dainty summer-house than a place in which
to live, for it was all open windows, doors and verandas. The sun shone
in all day and only soft, warm breezes murmured through it at night.
After a dainty repast, our travelers said “goodnight” and “good-bye” to
their charming and hospitable friends and then wished themselves on the
Satellite Island of Mars and here they immediately found themselves.




                              CHAPTER IV.


After the soft blue atmosphere of Venus Island, what a contrast was felt
on Mars. Here everything was fiery red, even the faces of the
inhabitants took on a flame color, just as the people and scene in a
theatre are colored by a red spot-light thrown upon the stage. But the
coloring round about was not as great a contrast as were the
dispositions of the people. The Martians, our young friends soon
discovered, were quick-tempered, argumentative, impatient, and
quarrelsome; while the Venusians were mild, sweet-tempered, easy-going,
kind, affectionate, and peace-loving. The Martians were so fiery and
cross that the little Princess wanted to go away immediately, she was so
afraid of them. She was finally persuaded to remain, however, for the
Prince and Harold were anxious to see what kind of firearms these people
used and, as they devoted their whole lives to warfare, how well they
were versed in military affairs.

Until now our young people had been invisible, but they decided to don
coats of mail and otherwise costume themselves as the Martians, so as to
be able to freely mingle with them unnoticed and unknown. On every side
one heard the clash of arms and the rattle of musketry. Even the little
children could be seen playing at war with toy cannons and pistols.

“What can all this commotion be about?” exclaimed Harold.

“It means that they are preparing for one of their frequent battles, for
you must know that they are always quarreling or fighting with some one.
At present, they are at war with the inhabitants who live on the
opposite side of this island. If you would like, we can go to the summit
of yonder hill and from that point look down upon the contending
parties, for the battle, I hear, is to be fought on the plain at its
foot,” said the Prince. Disputes and national problems are not settled
here as they are on Earth. When any vexed question arises, a certain
number of men are chosen on each side. Drawn up in lines opposite and
facing each other, at a given signal the attack is made, and the
contending parties fight until one or the other side is conquered. The
victorious men then arrange the disputed matter to suit themselves.
Neither side is allowed to call out any more men than those first
chosen. This is a great saving of lives when compared to the manner in
which men are sacrificed upon Earth in time of war.

Just then, stepping aside, Ione bumped into a man who happened to be
passing at the time, and she heard him mutter, “Clumsy! Can’t you look
where you are going so you won’t run into a person?”

“What a nice amiable husband that man would make,” said Ione to the
Princess.

Presently two men passed, talking in loud voices and one said, “I tell
you it is no such thing. You are an idiot for thinking so.”

And his companion replied, “What did you say? I’ll allow no man to
insinuate that I am a liar or to call me an idiot,” and before the girls
knew what was happening, the man who had first spoken was lying at their
feet felled by a blow from his angry companion.

This is only one instance of the quarreling and fighting that they heard
and saw on all sides. Every one seemed touchy, cross, overbearing and as
if carrying a chip upon his shoulder for the express purpose of having
some one knock it off and thus give provocation for a dispute or fight.

“Come on, Ione,” called Harold, “we are going to the top of the hill,
for the battle is about to begin. Did you hear the bugle call?”

“Oh, you bloodthirsty boy! How can you wish to see men kill each other?
You may go; I do not wish to see the battle, and while you are there the
Princess and I will wander about to see how these people live and what
their homes are like,” said Ione.

The girls, by means of their magic wishing-robes, became invisible and
found themselves in front of one of the Martian homes which at first
sight appeared like a huge bee-hive with openings at equal distances all
around. Through one of these openings an electric wagon passed, loaded
with packages, boxes and cans. The labels showed the contents to be
condensed foods of all kinds. They afterward found that these people
were partial to this kind of food because they do away with the tedious
preparation and long time required to serve, which the food of Earth
people makes necessary, besides they sustain life and make one much
stronger and healthier than the more hearty meals which Earth mortals
indulge in. Much of the food that Earth people eat is a detriment to
digestion and health and is often only eaten because of fondness for its
taste rather than for its nutritive properties, or for the sociability
it affords one to be at a table dining with congenial friends or
associates. From the openings in the building, covered passage-ways
ended in small, two-storied outhouses which were the co-operative
kitchens, laundries, dairies, cold-storage rooms, etc., and over these
the servants lived. In the second story of the main building over the
openings before mentioned, were the apartments of the Martians.
Everything on the island, from business to the care of children, was
carried on through co-operation. They found the interior of the building
complete in all of its appointments and furnished as elegantly as the
most fastidious lover of apartments could desire.

“Well, I am not fond of apartments, boarding-houses, hotels, or abodes
of any kind where several families live together. As soon as different
families share the same building it loses its home-feeling and
atmosphere, while no dwelling is large enough to hold more than one
comfortably,” said Ione.

“Let us now see how the battle is progressing,” said the Princess. Ione
was finally persuaded and wishing themselves on the summit of the hill,
what was their surprise and dismay on arriving there to find no one in
sight!

“What do you suppose can have become of the boys?” cried the Princess in
alarm, then noticing Ione’s eyes fastened on the battlefield in
horrified wonder, she turned to look in the same direction and nearly
fainted when she saw Harold and the Prince, each engaged in a
hand-to-hand encounter with giant Martians, while all around were strewn
the bodies of the dead and dying; for few of the many who had started
out so valiantly a few hours before survived the first onslaught of the
enemy.

[Illustration:

  COMING TOWARD THEM WERE TWO BEAUTIFUL BEINGS

  (p. 36)
]

While they watched, Harold caught his foot, stumbled, then fell and the
giant raised his sword to pierce his body, but instead of passing
through the form of his adversary, the sword was buried to its hilt in
the earth at his feet, for nobody was there. The giant rubbed his eyes,
looking dazed and incredulous, but still saw no one who even resembled
his late antagonist. I suppose you all know why this was? Harold had
just thought of his magic robe and wished himself invisible and at the
top of the hill. He reached there just in time to catch Ione in his arms
for she had fainted. The last thing she saw had been the upraised arm of
the Martian, and the sun shining on the glittering sword as it descended
to put an end to Harold’s life.

But the Prince! What had become of him? Being an expert swordsman he had
killed his antagonist, a man twice his own size and weight, but agility
and swiftness of thrust had won the day against size and weight. His
fencing lessons in the Palace at home had served him in good stead. He,
too, now used his wishing robe and reached Harold and the girls just as
Ione was reviving and asking how in the world they ever reached the
battlefield and got mixed up with the Martians.

“Well, it happened in this way,” said the Prince. “Harold and I became
so excited watching the fight that we could scarcely keep out of it and
when we saw the side we were in sympathy with losing ground, we wished
ourselves in the midst of the fray with broadswords in our hands, so of
course the first thing we knew we were there fighting like the native
Martians. But where is our guide?”

“I am sure I do not know. We left him with you,” said Ione.

“Yes, I know, but the last I saw of him he was standing beside us
watching the battle.”

“You don’t suppose that he too engaged in the fight, do you?” asked the
Prince.

“But if he did, where is he now, for all are dead but the one man whom
Harold failed to kill,” said Ione.

“Goodness, gracious, he may be killed too,” cried the Princess. “You had
better go and look for him.”

“I can find him better by staying here than by running all over the
island to find him. Have you forgotten our ability to have people and
scenes pictured in the sky above us?”

“Yes, I had,” said Ione.

“Well, now I wish that we may see where he is.”

They all looked up and on the blue vault above them saw the reflection
of their guide at the corner of a street, defending himself against two
burly Martians twice his size. One glance was enough. Both boys
disappeared at once, their wish being to be with the guide. The girls
sat still and watched the panoramic changes as the boys and their guide
joined in the fight. The trouble had come about in this way: The
Martians recognizing the Mercurian guide by his quick, agile movements
and knowing that all Mercury people had magic robes, had tried to steal
the acorn containing his wishing-robe. When the boys arrived on the
scene, the Martians were soon routed.

After this exciting escapade our party decided that the strenuous life
of Mars was not to their liking, so together they resumed their journey,
starting for the next island in order.




                               CHAPTER V.


“Do you see that crimson ball in the distance?” asked the guide. “That
is Jupiter, the planet whose Satellite Island we are now about to visit
and I am sure you will admire its inhabitants very much.”

Such handsome people as these Jupitarians proved to be! Far beyond their
greatest expectations. They were all tall and commanding in appearance,
with features like chiselled marble so perfect were they in outline.
With their classic brows, straight noses, and clear, luminous eyes they
one and all looked like gods and goddesses. Their manners were dignified
yet courteous in the extreme, and in a way they impressed one as being
rather haughty and reserved.

When our young people landed on the island they found themselves in the
middle of a great square on three sides of which were magnificent
buildings dedicated to the arts and sciences, over the colossal doorways
of which were symbolical mythological figures.

“It is an excellent idea to have them all here together facing the
square with its fourth side opening into a beautiful park containing
fountains and marble statues, also representing the gods and goddesses
associated with the arts and sciences as well as those symbolical of the
peaceful and just natures of this island’s inhabitants,” said Harold. “I
imagine the building before us with the broad, sweeping stairway must be
the Hall of Justice, for I see mythological figures in marble over the
doorway illustrating Justice and Mercy.

“And the building on our right must be their Palace of Art for it is
embellished with figures holding harps, flutes, horns, and various
musical instruments.”

“Suppose we keep on our invisible robes until we have made a tour of all
these wonderful buildings,” said Ione.

“And I suggest,” said the Princess, “that Ione and I go to the Palace of
Art while you two boys go with Mercury, to listen to the debates in the
Hall of Justice, for I am sure Ione and I will not care for the debates
no matter how fine they may be.” To this the boys assented and all
agreed to meet in two hours’ time at the fountain where they were now
standing.

When the girls first entered the Palace of Art they had a surprise for
they saw coming toward them three beautiful smiling women with hands
outstretched to greet them. They involuntarily stepped back, when they
remembered, all at once, that they were invisible, and on looking closer
they found that the women were but wonderfully life-like paintings.

“Well!” exclaimed Ione, “I never had such a start in my life and even
yet I can scarcely believe my eyes for there is no frame to mar the
effect and the perspective is so perfect that you imagine they are
living, moving people coming to welcome you to the Palace.”

“We must have the boys come here so we can fool them, too,” said the
Princess. “I have heard of portraits being so perfect that they were
called ‘living pictures,’ but these paintings surpass any ever seen on
the Earth. Look! all around us are prancing horses, wild animals
devouring their prey, and numberless pictures so realistic that I am
actually afraid I shall be trampled upon or devoured. The babies, too,
dimpled and smiling are so life-like they make one feel that they will
roll off the canvas and get hurt in some way.”

The pictures proved so fascinating to the girls that they forgot how
fast the time was passing until they heard steps behind them and,
turning, saw that the boys had come to look for them.

“We have been waiting for you and thought perhaps you were lost,” said
Harold.

“No, we did not get lost, but we were so absorbed with the paintings
that we forgot all about time and our appointment with you, but we are
so glad you came for us for we want you to meet three beautiful women
who welcome all strangers who enter this building,” said Ione, winking
at the Princess, for though they were invisible to the world at large,
they could see each other at all times.

“But, perhaps you have seen them already,” said the Princess. “By which
door did you enter?”

“We came through the passage-way that leads from the Hall of Justice,”
said the Prince.

“Then you did not meet them, so come with us,” said the Princess. “But
first drop your magic robes and approach them in your native costume.”

The girls led the boys around until they faced the picture and Ione was
nearly suffocated with laughter when she saw Harold tip his hat and
extend his hand to one of the ladies while the Prince bowed almost to
the ground. The Princess also laughed merrily at the astonished
expression on the faces of the boys when they discovered their mistake.

Later on Mercury said, “Before you leave the island I want you to see
the Palaces these people live in and the superb way in which they are
furnished, to say nothing of the magnificent grounds that surround
them.”

“You lead and we will gladly follow,” said the young people.

Talk of Aladdin’s Palace! It was a paperdoll’s house compared to these
enchanting palaces built of snow-white marble and crystal. Think of it!
One palace was built of emerald-colored, crystal-clear glass cut in
prisms joined in dainty designs to represent flowers and leaves. Being
cut in this manner, no one could look in to get a peep at the occupants;
but the sunbeams found their way throughout, the rooms and corridors
reflecting an exquisite golden-green light. This whole palace was held
together by wide bands of purest gold, which took the place of our
woodwork, while it was furnished throughout with the corresponding
magnificence of its structure; for instance, one drawing-room was
furnished in white velvet with jewel-set chair-frames of gold; another
in rare satin and velvet, while for pictures, mirrors, and statuary, it
had no equal on Earth or any of the other planets, for the Jupiter
people love to a marked degree splendor and magnificence.

There were many of these rainbow palaces all different in design, for it
is against the law for one to copy another in any way—from matters of
dress to those of homes and furnishings, each must have an original
design. In this way there is an opportunity for great display of taste
and individuality and one can tell at a glance from the outside of a
person’s home how rich the owner is in ideas, for the buildings and
surroundings will reflect his nature and tastes.

At the summit of a hill they saw a palace shining so brightly in the
sunlight that it looked like the sun itself. It was built of yellow
topaz. Another of sapphire surrounded by green foliage looked like a
bluebell hid in the woods, and so on until one could not tell which he
thought the most magnificent or desirable.

“Listen! I hear music!” exclaimed the Princess.

“What you hear,” said Mercury, “are the church bells that ring at
sunrise and at sunset. Are they not the sweetest-toned chimes you ever
listened to?”

“Indeed they are,” replied the Prince.

When the music of the bells had ceased, Mercury told them it was time to
start for Saturn as it would take some time to reach it even with their
magic robes, as it was out in space some seven hundred and eighty
million of miles away from the sun and they were only part way there,
Jupiter being but four hundred and twenty-six million miles distant from
the sun.

“As we travel there, Harold will tell you what a surprise we have for
you,” said the Prince.

“Oh, how nice, for if there is anything I enjoy it is a surprise,” said
the Princess. “I hope it is a nice one, though,” she added.

“Of course it is, or we would not tell you,” said the Prince.

“Do let’s hurry and get off, then,” said Ione, “for I, too, am anxious
to know what it is. I am simply dying with curiosity.”

“I never knew a girl to die so often and come to life so easily,” said
Harold in a teasing voice.

“I suggest that we take hold of hands so that we can keep close
together,” said Mercury, “if you people talk while we are travelling;
otherwise, some one will lag behind and lose part of the story.”

His suggestion was followed and soon all found themselves floating
smoothly and rapidly through space.

“Now for the surprise!” laughed Ione. “I can’t wait patiently any
longer. I am not fond of waiting for things.”

“In the first place, who do you think lives on the island we are going
to visit after we take a look at Saturn? Some one in whom you are
interested?” queried Harold.

“Why, no one, you foolish boy,” said Ione. “Why do you stop to tease me
when you know the Princess and I are all on tip toe to know your
surprise?”

“But I am not teasing this time,” said Harold. “Guess just once.”

“Oh, I can’t,” said Ione.

“Your father and mother,” said the Princess, “or else Ione’s.”

“No, no relation to any of us, but a relative to some one we are all
indebted to for most of the pleasant things that have ever happened to
us.”

“I know! I know!” cried Ione. “Some one who is related to our wise man,
the one who invented the Elephant.”

“You are right, Ione. That was a good guess.”

“Do tell us about him,” cried both girls at the same time.

“Well, it happened in this way. We were sitting in the gallery in the
Hall of Justice when an old man got up to speak. He was enough like our
old man to be a twin brother, (which he proved to be) and I cried out,
‘There is the wonderful old man who left me the Elephant!’ Mercury said
that could not be as this old man had not left the island for a century
as he could not get away, being at the head of the wise and learned men
here and President of the Island.

“‘I can’t help it,’ I said. ‘If you don’t believe me just look at this
picture I carry here in my watch and see if the man speaking is not its
exact counterpart even to hair, eyes, and beard; besides, the voice is
exactly the same.’

“Mercury looked and said, ‘The picture is certainly a perfect likeness
of the man on the platform.’ Then he told me to sit still and when the
session was over we would go and speak to him and find out if he were
really the one who left the Elephant, or if he were a relative of the
man.

“This we did and the old man met us very graciously and told us that he
was a twin brother to our old man. ‘And a wonderful old fellow he is,’
continued the sage. ‘I never saw his equal in inventive genius. He
originates things and then goes to the earth to try them. His hobby is
electricity and finding out the secrets of nature, while mine is to
bring peace and administer justice, as well as to promote the arts and
sciences. I never go to the earth but remain here and plan, sending my
deputies to carry out my ideas.’

“‘In speaking,’ said I, ‘you said is instead of _was_, do you mean to
tell me that your brother and my wonderful old man is alive still?’

“‘Certainly, I do. You thought he was dead when he fell back on his
pillow, but he had merely fainted and after a time when he recovered his
senses he found himself, so he said, on a bed of spruce bows, shut in a
cave. He knew immediately what had happened and that you had buried him,
thinking him dead, so he lay still for a time until the coolness of the
cave revived him, then having his wishing-robe with him, he wished
himself back on his beloved planet Uranus, and there he is now, safe and
well. If your travels take you that distance, to that most wonderful
planet which all inventors love, you will find him there and I am sure
he will be delighted to see you all.’

“Now, what do you think of that for a surprise?” asked Harold when he
had finished his story.

“It certainly is a pleasant one,” said Ione, “and of course we will go
to Uranus, no matter how far it is. I would not miss it for worlds,
would you, Princess?”

“Neither would we,” cried the boys, “and we will go there as soon as we
have seen Saturn. We may remain on Saturn for some time though, for they
say it is different from the other planets and that there is more change
and variety there than on the other planets.”

“How is that?” cried Ione.

“Well, you see it has different colored belts on its surface
corresponding to our zones, and a luminous flat ring that surrounds or
encircles it about where the equator does the earth, besides it has
satellites that belong to it as the Moon belongs to your Earth,” said
Mercury.

“Who knows but that different colored races of people live on those
different belts?” said Harold.

“I say, let’s go and find out,” said the Prince.

“Agreed,” they all said and, wishing themselves on Saturn, our travelers
found themselves on the island itself instead of its accompanying
Satellite Island, for it seemed to hold out so many inducements in the
way of its belted surface, rings, and seven satellites.




                              CHAPTER VI.


Our young people landed on the bank of what appeared to be a broad
river; so broad that one could just discern the opposite bank by a
faint, blue line. Along this river stretched house after house of
peculiar design, none more than one story high and each and every one
extending over so much ground that it gave the appearance of a little
village connected by long and short halls. The inside they found to be
furnished with only useful things—stiff, unhomelike furniture, and no
upholstered or rocking chairs so dear to the American heart.

“What, homely, sour-looking faces they have, and long noses, thin lips,
scant hair and small suspicious-looking eyes,” said Ione.

“I really don’t feel like stopping here, I feel so depressed, and
everything looks so uninviting,” said the little Princess.

Mercury explained that Saturnian people were strict disciplinarians and
also very conventional; and that they did not believe in allowing the
young to sit in easy chairs for this encouraged a lounging, lazy habit
most unbecoming.

Our young people pitied the children who lived here. They had to sit
erect in stiff-backed chairs so as to counteract the tendency which all
Saturn children have to stoop or lean forward. They also are compelled
to go from one task to another with clock-like regularity while even
their games are governed by rule or stated hours which seemed to take
all interest and freedom out of them.

“I am afraid I should want to drown myself in the river if I had to live
here and endure this tread-mill existence,” said Harold.

The walls of most rooms in the houses were lined with rows upon rows of
books. There were schools and schools and schools; while lessons and
lessons and lessons were being studied everywhere, recitations being
presided over by tall, lank-looking, stoop-shouldered professors with
straight, black hair, spectacled eyes, and stern visages. This constant
study and grind made the children look older than their years warranted,
while their heads were all too large to be supported by their poor,
thin, shrunken-looking little bodies. Most children begin their studies
at three years of age on this island.

“I have seen enough. Have you, Princess?” said Ione.

“Yes, and more than enough,” answered she.

Mercury now mentioned that there was a most interesting, novel part of
the island called “the Black Belt,” which received this name from the
color of the ring which encircles Saturn at this part. There are seven
openings into this region called “The Gates of Hades.” These openings
resemble the mouths of caves from which red lights shine, reflected from
the inner fires.

“If you wish to visit the interior of this planet, now is your
opportunity,” said Mercury. “A guide will be sent with us and will
insure our safe return.”

Of course the boys were wild for this adventure but the girls were
afraid to go until assured over and over again that there was absolutely
no danger and that they could return whenever they wished. So at last
they started in a most curious air-ship built like a bird which was
named “The Sky Lark.” It could be made to fly as a bird and to alight or
to arise in the air with equal ease. They all enjoyed the ride
immensely, especially when they would alight on some huge tree which
looked like the Banyan tree of Asia. Travelling in the air gave them a
splendid chance to see all beneath them and the island looked very
beautiful from this height because of its numberless bodies of water
sparkling in the distance.

“Who invented this novel bird?” asked Harold.

“The most wonderful and experienced inventor that now lives,” said
Mercury. “He is centuries old but by the aid of a magic liquid he keeps
himself alive and he is always inventing or harnessing nature’s forces
to do his bidding until there is no telling when he will stop. One of
the most unique things he ever invented was an artificial elephant so
like life that even live elephants themselves were deceived and thought
it alive like themselves. This elephant could travel on land, in the
water or on its surface, with the speed of the wind.”

“Stop, stop!” cried Harold. “What became of that elephant and its
inventor?”

“Well,” resumed the guide, “he took a notion to go to Earth, taking the
elephant with him and I have never heard what he afterwards did with it,
but he is back again at his beloved laboratory on Uranus working
incessantly on another invention that will astonish the universe, so he
says, when he completes it.”

“And what is it to be?” cried the Prince.

“Another air-ship, but of such large proportions and ease of handling
that few people can even imagine anything as perfect.”

“I am sure you would like to know what became of the elephant he took to
the Earth,” said Harold, “and I will tell you. That elephant belongs to
me and it is now on the Mercurian Island.”

“What!” exclaimed the guide, “You own the elephant and it is now on the
Mercurian Island?”

“Yes,” replied Harold.

“But will you kindly tell me how you ever got a big heavy thing like
that up in Star-land?”

“Certainly. The balloon carried it up.”

“Balloon! Who ever heard of a balloon in connection with an elephant? I
never did.”

“Well, there was one and a very good one at that,” said Harold.

“I believe you, of course, but if any one else had told me that a
balloon could be strong enough to carry an elephant that size I would
not have believed it possible, but I can believe anything any one tells
me about what that wonderful old man can do.”

They had now arrived at one of the gates of Hades.

“Now let us start down through this first gate, make a tour of the
interior and come out at the seventh gate,” suggested the guide.

Just then a burst of flames and the suffocating fumes of sulphur poured
out of one of the caves near by and nearly choked them. This settled the
girls. They decided to remain where they were.

“I hate to have you go down, dear,” said the Princess; “the fumes may
suffocate you.”

“Oh, no,” said the new guide who had arrived, “those fumes only arise
when the fires are being replenished. These holes are like chimneys and
no one can be entirely overcome. Attendants take good care of that for
they are instructed to prolong the sufferings of their victims but not
to kill them.”

“What relentless, cruel people these long-faced, sly-looking Saturnians
are,” exclaimed Ione.

As the boys disappeared through the opening, the girls called after
them, “Do be careful and hurry back.”

Down and down they went, choking and coughing the while as they
penetrated farther and deeper into the very bowels of the planet. The
air grew hotter and hotter and peering over the narrow, winding
stairway, they could see at the extreme bottom a red hot mass of
seething, burning matter.

“Hark! I thought I heard the Princess scream,” said the Prince, abruptly
stopping on his way.

“I heard no one,” said Harold, “so I guess you are mistaken, or it might
have been the voice of some one down below.”

“Perhaps so,” replied the Prince; but love’s ears are sharp, and he had
heard aright, though he was overpersuaded and continued on his way.

The Princess had screamed because directly in front of her the ground
had suddenly opened like a big door and out of the opening had come a
red-clad figure with horns on its head and a staff in its hand.

Ione was too astonished to move and sat there staring at the newcomer,
with eyes and mouth wide open. Bitterly she repented her suggestion,
which both girls had acted upon, that they remove their magic robes and
appear once more to each other as the American girl and the little
Oriental Princess.

“I have come for you,” said he. Neither girl moved an inch.

“Come,” he continued, “or I shall have to carry you.”

Still neither girl moved or knew what to do. Stiff with fright, they
vaguely wondered what he would do if they refused to go with him.

[Illustration:

  THE GIANT RAISED HIS SWORD

  (p. 50)
]

They soon found out, for he struck the ground three times with his tail
which rattled like that of a great rattlesnake and immediately the
ground opened as it had before and out jumped a figure in scales of
green. He gave Ione one look, and then at a signal from the other lifted
her in his arms which were as strong as iron and followed the red
sprite, who had picked up the Princess. It was no use to struggle,
thought the girls, and maybe the boys had sent for them, anyway they
decided not to do anything until they found what was going to be done
with them.

The two sprites approached a large, flat, white stone and both stepped
upon it at the same instant. Down it went, taking them with it into the
very center of the planet. Not a word was spoken while they were
slipping through the long, dark shaft, and the stone platform on which
they were standing stopped after a time, while a door at one end of the
shaft opened and they found themselves in Hades, proper, as this portion
of it was called.

The girls blinked like bats at first when the vivid light flashed into
their eyes but they soon became accustomed to it. They were now put into
wheelbarrows that looked as if used for carrying coal, and were wheeled
along without a word. The Princess found a chance to whisper, “Do you
think they are going to burn us as they would coal?”

“I am sure I don’t know. Oh, for our magic robes!” said Ione in a
similar whisper.

Presently they began to pass dismal cells in which were chained
wicked-looking men and women, and over each of these cells was an
account of the deeds each had committed, cut in letters which gleamed
like coals of fire. All around them blue, yellow, and green devils were
working, stirring the already hot fires, throwing on more sulphur or
adding fuel, refusing ever to give the poor inmates the cool draught of
water for which they were continuously begging.

Over one of the cells they read the account of a most brutal murder,
over another the inhuman treatment of wife and children, and so on past
hundreds and hundreds of cells until they were sick at heart to know
that such cruelties could exist and had to be in some way punished. Of
course they could not but hear the moans and groans of the victims and
their horrible language as well, but deaf ears were turned to all
pleadings and the girls felt that it would be useless for them to beg to
be taken back to the surface and daylight and were beginning to lose
their courage, when to their surprise and delight they saw Harold and
the Prince coming down a broad passage just ahead of them. What then was
the astonishment of the boys to see them being trundled in wheelbarrows
down in the very depths of Hades?

“What do you mean by bringing these ladies down here?” said the boys’
guide to the sprites who had carried away the girls.

They explained that they had been told to bring down two people whom
they would find in a certain place, and as the girls were in this place
they of course brought them down. With many and profuse apologies for
their mistake, made in a language not one word of which the girls could
understand, these sprites retired.

The guides now asked them if they would like to investigate further for
there were numerous divisions to Hades which they had not as yet seen.
These divisions were graded according to the atrocity of the deeds
committed. The most wicked criminals were sent to the lowest depths, the
punishments there being the most severe, while they lessened as each
higher division was reached. The boys declared they had seen all they
cared to and as for the girls, they had witnessed much more than they
wished to, so they were quickly conducted to the open air.

“This is the very way we were taken down,” said Ione.

“Sure enough, it is,” replied the Princess. “Did you ever see such an
elevator in all your life?” for with a one, two, three, they had reached
the open air, while just before them fluttered their air-ship.

“Now where shall I take you?” asked their attendant, “I have orders to
show you the sights of our island.”

“Thank you, but we must not tarry longer,” said Harold.

“But surely you will like to visit our satellites and luminous belts
which we are very proud of since ours is the only planet in this solar
system that has luminous belts.”

“I am sure they must be worth seeing, but we have already stayed so long
that we must hurry on now,” said the Prince and, thanking the guide for
his courtesy and kindness, they quickly donned their wishing-robes and
started for Uranus, glad to leave the gloom of Saturn and relieved to
get away from a place where they had not heard one merry laugh.




                              CHAPTER VII.


Off, off into space sped our quartette with their guide, past heaven’s
many-colored star-lamps shining in their vault of blue to light the many
worlds that surround as well as our world beneath them. They neither
loitered nor stopped at any place on their way for you must remember
that they had to travel many million miles to reach Uranus, that planet
being way out in space at a distance of from one billion, six hundred
and ninety-nine million to one billion, eight hundred and sixty-five
million miles from the Sun. It takes this planet about eighty-four
years, traveling in its regular path, to make one complete circuit of
the Sun.

Without their magic robes it would have been impossible to reach this
distant island, but with them, and by constantly reiterating their wish
to be there, they at last came in sight of this glorious planet and were
dazzled by its clear white light which gleamed and flashed with the
brilliancy of the purest diamond.

“It is well that we are going to the Satellite Island instead of to the
planet itself,” said Ione. “I doubt if we could endure its dazzling
light for it hurts my eyes even at this distance.”

“Strange, eccentric people live there,” said Mercury. “People who on
Earth would be thought foolish or insane, for nothing is too strange for
them to tolerate, to investigate, or to experiment with, and they are
constantly proving that what Earth people sometimes look upon as
impossible or merely as the idea of a diseased brain often proves both
possible and practical, while the so-called lunatic, the inventor, is
here revered as a man of brains and a genius.”

The buzz of wheels and drills accompanied with the pounding of hammers
was heard on all sides, for everywhere men were working on
newly-invented, highly-perfected air-ships, steamers, war-vessels, air
brakes, railroad apparatus of all kinds, machinery for hoisting great
weights, etc.; while inside the buildings men were busy in laboratories,
bending over retorts in which boiling liquids could be seen. These men
were so quaintly dressed and so weird-looking that they reminded one of
the alchemists of old trying to turn the baser metals into gold. There
were wide-awake young men here also, studying the marvelous properties
of the newly-discovered radium, which at the present time is worth three
hundred thousand times its own weight in gold, and many elements and
metals that Earth people know nothing of.

As they went from shipyard to laboratory and from laboratory to
electrical workrooms, they closely scanned the faces of all about them,
hoping to see their wonderful old man. After leaving the men’s quarters,
they came to an immense building where none but women were at work, some
on tapestries, others on lace that rivaled the cobweb for delicacy of
texture. Embroideries they saw in which the flowers literally seemed to
grow, blossom, and wait to be plucked; pictures done in illuminated
paints whose tints rivaled those of sunset skies—in fact everything that
human hands could do was done here to perfection.

“Our old man cannot be here,” said the Princess. “Perhaps he has
returned to Earth with another elephant or air-ship.”

They were about to abandon their search for him when Mercury said:

“See that peculiar looking edifice built in the shape of a Greek cross.
Let us go and find out what it is. Perhaps it is the especial laboratory
of the very man for whom we are searching.”

On arriving at the door they were very much impressed with the beauty
and grandeur of the entrance to say nothing of the elaborate decorations
of the edifice itself. The doors were wide open and, entering, they saw
in the center of a highly-vaulted chamber, a large model air-ship that
looked as light as paper wrought in graceful curves with great beauty of
design, but which proved to be on closer inspection as strong as iron.
That it would work like magic without hitch or flaw, our young people
knew at once, since their wonderful old man was its inventor. And there
beside it he stood with a dreamy, far-away expression in his eyes as if
he already felt himself speeding through space in it. Harold recognized
him at once with his white hair and beard and his loose gown of dark
purple corded in at the waist. They all advanced a little nearer and
stood directly before him where his eyes would rest upon them
immediately he came out of his open-eyed dream.

Mercury told the young people to doff their magic robes, and they were
scarcely off their shoulders when the old man started, rubbed his eyes,
stared, again rubbed his eyes as if brushing away some illusion, looked
once more, and then said:

“Be ye flesh and blood I look upon or only fancies of my brain?”

“My dear sir,” Harold answered, “we are flesh and blood and if you will
but look more closely you will surely recognize me as the young man who
entered your elephant when I thought you dying.”

“To be sure! To be sure!” he exclaimed. “But how did you all reach this
island?” he asked in surprise.

When Harold had finished giving him a detailed account of all he had
done and where they had traveled since receiving the elephant, he said,
“Well done, my young hero. I see that my elephant could not have fallen
into better hands and from my heart I am glad that you have all enjoyed
it.”

“How much we have enjoyed and appreciated your gift we will never be
able to tell,” replied Harold, “but we all tender you sincere and
earnest thanks,” in which the rest of the party enthusiastically
acquiesced.

“And now since you have come all this way to thank me for my gift I will
give you another treat. I will take you all for a trip in my newly
perfected air-ship of which the one before you is but the model. The
ship itself is in a large enclosure on the other side of the building.”

“How perfectly enchanting that will be!” exclaimed the girls, while the
boys thanked him profusely for all the trouble he was taking.

“No trouble, I assure you,” he said, “only a pleasure. Follow me and I
will show that my air-ship is as far ahead of the elephant as a fast
ocean steamer is ahead of a flatboat.”

“My! what are those people doing who are jumping up in the air and
darting about as if shot from a gun?” asked the Princess.

“To be sure! To be sure! It must seem strange to you,” answered the old
man, “but that is our mode of locomotion. We propel ourselves through
the air instead of walking, as that is too slow to suit our tastes. We
do not fly but we use an electric apparatus about the size of a matchbox
which we fasten between our shoulders, and one half as large which we
wear under the soles of our feet. If we wish to travel in the air to
avoid crowds and hindrances we simply press hard upon the soles of our
feet and the little contrivances fastened there send us up almost as
rapidly as if blown by an explosive, then by the use of handles
connected with the boxes between our shoulders, we propel ourselves
forward, backward, sideways or in any direction desired. A great many of
our people devote all their time to studying new and improved methods of
travel for the use of the inhabitants of Earth, for year by year your
people seem to be more and more in a hurry and methods which seem
perfectly satisfactory one year are all too slow before twelve months
have passed by. Well! here we are,” he continued, throwing open enormous
doors which led into a large grassy enclosure devoid of trees of any
description, in which, pulling at her anchor with every passing breeze,
rested the air-ship, “Queen of the Heavens,” as she had been named.

I shall not attempt to describe this beautiful, graceful, convenient
marvel but will leave it to the reader’s imagination. I will say,
however, that the heaviest metal used in its construction was aluminum,
while it was lighted with radium whose dazzling glare was softened by
colored globes, and its propelling power was electricity but so
perfected that an Earth-born mortal of today would not recognize it as
such.

“Now, my dear young people, where shall I take you for a sail? Shall it
be to the Moon, to the Dog Star, or still further toward Neptune, or
would you like to slowly drop to within a mile of the Earth and then
sail around it?”

“Oh! the last!” they all exclaimed in chorus, “for it would be such fun
to see the people of Earth gazing at us through telescopes thinking we
were inhabitants from Mars coming to visit them.”

“Very well, just as you choose,” he said.

After they were comfortably seated, the anchor raised and the old man
had placed himself at the helm, the ship began slowly to ascend into the
blue ether until it was above and free from the high wall of the
enclosure, then with a turn of the steerage apparatus, the huge ship
glided up as easily as a bird and with slightly lowered bow commenced to
sink toward Earth. Past single stars, through groups of stars, still
lower down into starless ether, then across the air line boundary into
Earth’s atmosphere, through thick masses of clouds, they at last came
into clear atmosphere half a mile above the earth and could now see
numberless people straining their eyes to discover what this strange
aerial craft might be. It would take an endless time to relate all that
happened on this trip but I will disclose a few events in the next
chapter of the voyage of “The Queen of Heaven.”




                             CHAPTER VIII.


The big ship was poised in mid-air over the Palisades of the Hudson,
near New York City. Presently the old man lowered the machine so close
to Earth that Harold and the Prince descended a rope ladder and landed
in order that they might get some newspapers and discover what was being
said about the air-ship, which had evidently been seen at different
places all the way from California to the East. They were likewise
charged with several commissions from the girls, not the least being one
to bring them candy for, as they said, “they were dying for some of
Huyler’s best.”

At about sundown the boys returned, having made good time to and from
the city. Their arms and pockets were loaded with boxes and packages of
various sizes, for they had purchased candy, peanuts, gum, papers,
magazines, and last but not least a dress for each of the girls which
they knew would be needed if they decided to land anywhere. Those they
already had were badly out of style and, sad as it may seem, I shall
have to tell you that their magic robes would not work below the
air-shed line in the Earth’s atmosphere.

As the boys were unloading their arms and emptying their pockets, the
girls stood close beside them listening to the doings of the day and
eating peanuts and candy between questions.

“Well! I will tell you the things that impressed me most forcibly were
the dirt and the smoky atmosphere and, what was scarcely less
disagreeable, the unmannerly people in the slow-moving crowds. I
constantly wished for my magic robe that I might escape from the
clanging bells, rumbling wheels, and pushing crowds. It was positively
deafening after enjoying the quiet and peace of the skies, and
suffocating too, with its smoke-laden atmosphere. How so many people can
live in a city from choice, I cannot imagine. I always disliked noise
and dirt but now after our recent experiences in the heavens, it will be
unendurable.”

While they had been talking, the old man had quietly steered the ship
over New York harbor and now he and Mercury were watching a large white
object that was sailing directly beneath them.

“Look over the side,” said Mercury. “See what a beautiful sight the
harbor presents with all its ocean-liners and ferry boats moving to and
fro in the moonlight with their many-colored lanterns. That fast ocean
greyhound is especially majestic and has just entered the harbor with
its hundreds of passengers from foreign shores.”

The old man lowered the ship so that they could distinguish voices on
the steamer beneath them and could see by the rays thrown from the
search-light the frightened faces of the passengers. As the steamer
passed on to her dock the air-ship slowly ascended until she was lost to
sight in the clear night sky.

While they were speeding on their way to Europe, Harold took out the
papers he had bought, and seating himself beside a shaded reading lamp
commenced to read aloud what was being said about their air-ship. One
paper had in red head lines:

“Our neighbors from Mars have at last materialized, but either from
fright or some unknown reason have failed to land or in any way
communicate with us, so that we are none the wiser for their visit.”

Another read, “A wonderful phenomenon has been observed at many points
in the West. First at San Francisco, then, within twenty-four hours, in
Omaha, later in Chicago, and last in Philadelphia. It is impossible to
conjecture whether it is a heavenly body wandering out of its natural
course or whether it is a mechanical toy invented by human hands, for it
travels too fast for satisfactory examination or observation. It is at
present reading an unsolved problem.”

A scientific magazine devoted several pages to theories concerning this
aerial stranger:

“Its speed seemed only rivaled by the ease and grace of its motions. It
has not been seen to land any passengers, neither is it known that it
contained passengers, although judging from its direct and steady course
it is reasonable to believe that it is controlled by human agency.
People are sleeping on the house-tops hoping to see it sail by, for some
one is on watch every moment to give the signal should it appear.”

In the meantime our young people were half way to Europe in the midst of
a terrible thunder storm and now it was that “The Queen” showed the
perfection of her mechanism, for with sails lowered, and all things
shipshape, she was ready for anything, and though the wind blew
hurricanes, the thunder sounded with deafening crashes, and the
lightning fairly blinded them with its lurid glare, the ship floated
serenely onward. Storms had no visible effect upon this queer-shaped air
craft. It shot through the storm clouds like a meteor with no trouble
whatsoever, while the rain and hail slipped off doing no damage. Once or
twice the girls had a scare when it turned bottom side up and over and
over two or three times like a bucket of water when twirled at arms
length, but it righted itself at once and all was done so quickly that
not even a dish fell from the shelves or a chair moved from its place
any more than a drop of water would fall from a bucket swung in that
way. At another time it spun round and round like a top until they were
all dizzy and could scarcely sit up, then it shot forward hither and
thither with lightning-like speed. At last the old man disentangled the
wires and adjusted the steering apparatus, when all was again smooth
sailing, but he found that in doing so he had sustained several shocks
from the electric wires and some bad burns.

“Now is the time for me to experiment on myself and see what radium will
do for me. It is claimed to effect wonderful cures for such things.” He
made the experiment and found that it not only effected a painless but
also a quick cure. “It is an ill wind that blows no one any good,” he
said, “and now I can recommend the use of this element for burns and
blisters.” He seemed quite delighted to think that he had been hurt
since it gave him an opportunity of proving the wonderful power of this
new metal.

While the storm was raging, our party had heard the booming of cannon
and had seen sky-rockets ascend.

“Are they signals of distress from some ship underneath us?” asked
Harold.

“I think so,” answered the captain, as they now called the old man.
“I’ll lower our ship and see if we cannot assist them.”

Presently they saw an ocean-liner breasting the winds and breakers,
helpless in midocean, without masts and with a big hole in its side.

“It is doomed!” cried the captain; “but we can save the passengers. Our
ship will float above her steady as a rock and I can lower rope ladders
so that her passengers can reach our deck in safety.”

When the frightened passengers saw this magnificent ship in mid-air
above them they thought it was a mirage or phantom-ship sent to mock
them in their despair, but when they heard through the megaphone
encouraging words directing them to mount the ladders to safety, they
instantly complied and soon every person on the disabled ship from
stevedore to captain was on the air-ship, some with tears and sobs,
others with white haggard faces thanking the captain for his timely
coming. The last person had barely placed his foot on the step of the
ladder when the ocean steamer gave a mighty lurch and disappeared from
sight as if pulled under water by some merciless mer-king.

After the passengers recovered from their fright they were profuse with
their oh’s and ah’s of admiration of the majestic ship they were now on,
with its new electrical contrivances, peculiar mode of lighting, and the
elegance and comfort of its furnishings. Everything was examined from
the bathtubs to the stringed musical instruments that vibrated
harmonious, plaintive melodies as the wind swept through them. They were
delighted with the frescoes and superb paintings illustrative of scenes
in space as well as on land and water, which decorated the ceilings and
walls.

The wrecked ship was bound for Liverpool so the captain landed his
passengers there one fine morning before half the people of that city
were awake.

[Illustration:

  THEY REMINDED ONE OF THE ALCHEMISTS OF OLD

  (p. 84)
]




                              CHAPTER IX.


After bidding the shipwrecked people good-bye, our party concluded to
steer for Siam, stopping at the city of Paris on their way, for the
Prince and Princess had never visited this city of styles and
wickedness. They arrived there early one morning just when the first
rays of the Sun were lighting the towers of Notre Dame and the captain
guided them directly to the Eiffel Tower where they landed, planning to
remain in Paris for a few days, the captain, in the meantime, would sail
above the city and wait for them.

I will not stop to tell you all that they saw or did during that
memorable week, for those who have been in Paris can imagine and those
who have not may hold it in anticipation. Suffice it to say that they
all had, as Ione put it, “the time of their lives,” visiting theatres,
Versailles, the Louvre, shopping, driving in the parks, taking dinners
at the best hotels and suppers at the celebrated restaurants. They were
pretty well tired out when they at last returned to the ship on the
appointed morning.

“And now we are off for Siam to see what has taken place during your
absence,” said the captain. “I know you have called up the picture of
Siam on our magic mirror to see how things were going but you could not
talk to your people as you will be able to do now.”

“Magic Mirror is an apt name for the blue vault which pictures the
wonderful views we have seen,” said the Princess.

“A penny for your thoughts, Prince,” said Harold.

“They are not for sale but I will give them to you if you will come
here. I want to consult you about something.”

“I hope it is not that you wish to leave us when we reach Siam,” said
Harold.

“No, indeed! Quite the contrary. I have concluded that I do not wish to
go to Siam even for a visit and if you will come and sit beside me I
will tell you why. You see, if I go to Siam my people will know that I
am alive and then my brother would have to give up his throne which he
so highly prizes, as he would no longer be the rightful heir. Now I care
nothing for the throne so why not let them still think me dead and allow
my brother to live in peace? When we first thought of visiting Siam I
did not realize how my going would complicate matters, but only thought
of the pleasure it would give the Princess and myself to surprise and
see them once more. Now, I feel that we must forego the pleasure.”

“You are right, Prince. I, too, did not think of the trouble your visit
would cause.”

“We must speak to the captain and tell him of our change of plans or we
will be in Siam and landing at the palace before we know it at the rate
of speed we are now traveling,” said the Prince.

So they told the captain their afterthoughts and he said their decision
was a wise one and added that it would have been too bad to shorten the
aerial trip of the Princess. If he had stopped to visit his people they
naturally would not have been willing that he continue his travels after
getting him back, as they thought, from the dead.

“You must not return to Earth to remain until you have first visited
Neptune, that mystic planet far out in space on the very borders of our
solar system, to say nothing of the beautiful and surprising places
bordering on the Milky Way.”

Mercury now spoke, saying that he feared he should not be able to
accompany them longer unless they returned to the heavens immediately,
for his time of leave would expire before he could get to Neptune and
return, it was so very far away. “I want you to see some of the
independent islands also, those not under the influence or sway of any
of the planets.”

“Goodness, gracious, me! If you are thinking of leaving us, we will
return to the heavens this minute rather than lose you, for no other
guide would be acceptable to us after having been led by you,” said
Ione.

“You are very kind, but there are dozens of other guides far superior to
me,” said Mercury.

“Of course you would say that,” said the Prince, “but we don’t know how
good the others are and we do know you, so we are going back at once to
those mysterious, fascinating lands that float in heaven’s blue ether.”

Having all agreed to return with Mercury, the captain pointed the bow of
his trusty ship in a direct oblique line for Uranus, where he was to
hand them over to Mercury once more.

Although “The Queen” traveled with the speed of electricity, it took
several days for our party to reach Uranus as, unlike their magic robes,
she could not quite do away with time and space. On their way to Uranus
the captain told them if they should ever want for money all they had to
do was to go where there was a large deposit of radium and sell enough
to supply their needs, for it was much more valuable than gold itself,
and he then proceeded to tell them where they could always find this
white chemical in the form of crystals, which much resembled salt.

“On Uranus we have no money or specie of any kind,” he continued. “Our
trading is done by giving out thoughts and ideas. Each man’s bank is his
brain and he who has the best brain is considered the wealthiest man,
while he is valued for what he actually has done, and not for what he
says he can do, for the good of his race. No repetition of others’
thoughts or bragging can be either traded or taken in account here. A
man must do what he says he can do and he who does the most for the
public good is looked upon and taken for the guide and ruler of the
island. All questions and decisions are referred to him and all depend
upon his judgment as to ways and means of settlement.”

“How I wish things were arranged in that way on our Earth,” said Harold.
“Then the right man would be in the right place every time, and
prosperity would be ensured.”

“I see it! I see it!” exclaimed Ione.

“See what?” asked Harold.

“Uranus,” replied she.

“True enough, she does,” said the captain. “You have very sharp eyes,
and now that the way is clear I am going to use full speed. Listen to
the varied and peculiar tones the air makes as it rushes by.”

“Does it not sound weird?” said Ione.

“It makes me feel creepy and afraid,” said the Princess.

“Horrors! What is the matter now!” exclaimed Ione, for they had come to
a sudden stop.

“Nothing,” calmly replied the captain, “only that we have reached our
destination and I lessened the speed to allow the ship to sink quietly
down into the enclosure we started from.”

“You mean to tell us we are really back!” they exclaimed in chorus.
“Only a few minutes ago we were leagues away.”

“So we were but, if you remember, I said I intended using full speed,”
replied the captain, “and behold the result. Distance was soon wiped out
and time almost caught up with.”

“We can never thank you enough for this pleasant trip. We have given up
entirely ever being able to pay our indebtedness to you for all the
charming treats you have given us,” said the Princess.

“Do not thank me, for I have had equal joy in seeing the successful
result of my inventions as well as witnessing your pleasure. And now
before we part I wish to give you each a memento of the happy hours we
have spent together. My gift cannot be delivered now, but some fine
morning you will see floating above each of your homes an air-ship the
exact counterpart of the one we are now in.”

They were all too touched by his generosity to be able to speak at
first, but the Princess quickly recovered herself and walked shyly
toward the old man. Throwing her arms around his neck, she kissed him.
Ione did likewise while the Prince and Harold, with moistened eyes,
gripped his hands in silent gratitude and appreciation, only saying that
it was too much for him to do. But the old man only laughed and seemed
exceedingly happy in knowing that he had been the means of giving them
pleasure.

You can well imagine how they lingered in saying good-bye and would not
be satisfied until he had promised that he would visit them when they
were settled in the new homes they were going to prepare when they
returned to Earth.

“Now, Mercury, what can I give you?” asked the old man. “I know that
material things are not desired by those who live in space, and as a
person cannot give a slice of his brains, the only valuable thing here,
I am at a loss to know what to give you to show how much I appreciate
your kindness in bringing these young people to me.”

“The pleasure of being with you all has been sufficient recompense for
me,” replied Mercury, “and if you do not mind I should like to return
and learn from you some of the wonderful secrets of nature you possess.”

“Come, my dear fellow, and come often. I would be delighted to teach you
anything I know, for I am getting to be an old man and some times feel
that I have done my share of work and would be glad to leave in younger
hands the tasks and studies that are still unfinished.”

For a long time after our party had started for Neptune they felt quiet
and subdued. Ione did not talk and Harold forgot to tease. They had
traveled in silence for some distance when Ione in a revery said,
“Neptune, god of the waters. I wonder if we will find the planet’s
Satellite Island nearly all water and its inhabitants floating about in
gondolas or queer-shaped barges and boats, as the Venetians do.”

“I expect we will,” said the Princess, “and I have the funniest feeling,
as if when I reach there I shall have reached the end of space and can
look over the edge as I should if the universe were a plate and Neptune
a big ball on its rim.”

“Oh! you queer girl!” exclaimed Ione. “You have the funniest ideas
sometimes. You make me laugh.”

“I should think you would be afraid our ‘wishes’ would get out of order
and we would get stuck in space like a balky horse or, if our magic
robes failed to work, that we would go whirling and speeding through
space like a comet,” said Harold.

“Harold, you are the worst tease I ever knew,” said the Princess.

“Well, isn’t it true that all things wear out with constant use? We have
kept wishing, wishing, and wishing that we might be first in this place
and then in that, or that we could see this or the other thing until I
should think our robes would at least be threadbare.”

“I am sure it is lucky for us that our robes are made of magical stuff
or, as Harold says, they would not only be threadbare but full of holes
as well,” said the Prince.

“Look sharply and you will see just ahead, first a flash of blue then a
flash of green light,” said Mercury. “Those are from Neptune and as we
draw nearer the lights will shine with steady brilliancy.”




                               CHAPTER X.


Neptune was so far away that it required repeated wishing to get there.
Think of it! It is 2,791,000,000 miles from the Sun, a distance one
cannot realize or grasp from cold figures. It has to be compared to
something on Earth for one to form any definite idea of its immensity.

“Now, one, two, three,” said Mercury. “Let us make a last wish and it
will surely land us on Neptune’s Satellite Island.”

They complied and in the twinkling of an eye found themselves standing
on a high arched bridge facing, well! how can I describe it? A
magnificent white temple-like edifice all domes, porticoes, and windows
of rainbow hues. It stood in the center of a small island connected with
the mainland by twelve bridges similar to the one on which they were
standing. Each bridge faced an imposing column-porticoed entrance, with
broad sweeping steps leading to it, on either side of which were
symbolical figures that represented the different signs of the Zodiac.
The entire temple was built in such a style as to form an eight-pointed
star, in the center of which was a circle. The audience hall was a
stupendous circular room with twelve doors leading from it. Overhead in
the lofty dome, which was of sapphire to represent the blue of the sky,
were sprinkled diamond stars and differently colored jewels representing
each planet in its characteristic color. Looking closely, one could see
that this dome was divided into twelve sections by gold bands and in its
center was one enormous diamond representing the Sun, while each
division or section was marked by a sign of the Zodiac, and the colored
jewels that represented the planets were placed in the sign of the
Zodiac in which they were located at the time of the birth of Christ,
while the whole circle was called “The Circle of Life.”

Directly underneath this dome was another Zodiacal Circle set in the
floor where the planets moved by clock work and were always to be found
just where the real planets in the heavens are each day in the year.
This temple was one dedicated to the twin sciences Astronomy and
Astrology. The people who live on Neptune call Astronomy the backbone
and Astrology the soul of the science of the stars.

“Here is where one can have his horoscope or life-wheel calculated, and
can learn what his talents, abilities, and future prospects are,” said
Mercury.

“Let us go and have our future predicted,” said Ione.

As they stood on the bridge talking and looking about them, beautiful
gondolas had been gliding along on the placid waters beneath. Each
gondola had elaborately carved jewel-set figures, representing sea
horses, mermaids or Undines for its bow, and carried a minstrel or
musician, and its passengers leaned on silken cushions apparently
oblivious to surroundings while listening to the soft, plaintive tones
that fell from harp, flute or mandolin. The musical plash of the single
paddle which guided the pleasure-boats furnished a harmonious
accompaniment. This was truly a silent city where carriage wheels were
never heard or the clatter of horse’s hoofs, for there were no streets,
only canals and lagoons.

“Suppose we cross this bridge and enter the temple,” said Mercury. “I
have a pass that will admit us to all buildings on the Satellite
Islands.”

“That will be agreeable to us,” answered Harold.

So they wished themselves dressed in simple white robes and then walked
slowly over the bridge and followed the path that led to the Temple of
Astrology. As they approached, they saw a stately old man about to
descend the steps. He had a snowy beard and flowing, white hair. A
mantle of purple velvet was thrown across his shoulders and on its hem
were embroidered the signs of the Zodiac in threads of gold. On his
breast flashed a diamond star, while on the third finger of his left
hand he wore a priceless seal ring set with his birth-stone.

Mercury recognized him at once as one of the twelve wise men who
presided over the Wheel of Life set in the Temple floor, also one of the
“Brotherhood of Twelve,” a secret order legally licensed to calculate
horoscopes and read the lives of people.

Mercury introduced our party and told the Brother that the ladies would
like to have their life-wheels read. He courteously consented and
offered also to show them the marvelous telescope, with lens so powerful
that the star farthest away in space could be brought into plain view.

“Now, if you will come with me I will tell you a curious thing about
this temple, for though you may wonder why, you will soon realize that
you are drawn in a certain direction as if by invisible hands. For
instance, as you walk around the circular hall, when you arrive at the
door leading to that sign of the Zodiac under which you were born, you
will feel an irresistible desire to enter and stand on that sign in the
Zodiacal wheel set in the floor. Like, they say, attracts like.”

“But I do not know which sign I was born under,” said Ione.

“It does not matter in the least whether you know or not,” replied the
Brother. “You will instinctively enter the door and be most strongly
attracted to the especial sign which appeared at the eastern horizon at
the hour of your birth.”

“What fun!” said Ione. “Let us walk around and test it.”

“How very interesting,” said the Princess. “We can walk slowly and
completely around the circle taking a good look at each entrance, then
on the second round we can enter the door that seems most attractive.”

“And when you find that out,” continued the Brother, “as you stand on
the sign in the wheel, I will tell you something of your disposition,
nature, and inclinations. Another thing I will mention is that a special
color is also assigned to each sign, also a jewel which is called one’s
birth gem, and which it is fortunate for one to wear. We planet people
wear ours on our third finger.”

“Why on the third finger?” queried Harold.

“Because three is a sacred number and is symbolical of many things.
Another fact about these signs is that each represents one of the four
elements, fire, earth, air, or water. Look at the wheel in the dome and
you will see that each of its divisions is colored according to the
element it represents, red for fire, brown for earth, blue for water,
and white for air. There are three red, three brown, three white, and
three blue sections.

“When the early astrologers were consulted by two people with regard to
marriage, and found that one was born under a sign representing fire,
while the other was born under one representing water, they would advise
them not to marry, for one would be warm-hearted, impulsive, and
impetuous while the other would be slow and easy-going, so that, not
being congenial, they would not be happy together. Fire is quenched by
water, while water is disturbed and made to steam or boil by fire.”

“How very interesting this study of the stars must be,” said Harold.

“I mean to pursue it,” said the Prince.

“If you think simply the signs are interesting to hear about, you would
find the position of the planets in the different signs perfectly
fascinating, but the stars are a life-long study and the longer one
studies them the more absorbed one becomes. Shall we begin our circuit
around the hall now? I am always interested to know through what door
one is inclined to enter.”

As they leisurely sauntered along they plied the Brother with numberless
questions and when any of their number would stop unusually long before
any door, the others would immediately ask, “Do you think that leads to
your sign?” or “Do you truly feel inclined to enter that door?” and so
between questions and much laughter they finished their first round.




                              CHAPTER XI.


Over the first doorway they saw a ram’s head and the first sign of the
Zodiac called Aries, while on either side of the broad steps leading to
the portico were lambs lying at rest.

“I am sorry to be the first to leave you,” said Harold, “but I am
strongly attracted this way.”

“Really, are you?” exclaimed Ione. “I don’t feel attracted toward it in
the least, and I should think I would, loving you as I do.”

“Not at all! Not at all!” responded the Brother. “That has nothing to do
with it.”

“Well, good-bye, we will soon join you in the temple,” they cried as
they walked toward the second entrance. Over this door they saw the head
of a bull and the second sign of the Zodiac called Taurus, while two
ferocious-looking bulls stood on either side of the entrance. No one
seemed inclined to pass through here.

Over the third entrance they saw the carved figures of The Twins
symbolizing the third sign, Gemini, but all passed by.

As they approached the next door, however, Ione said, “I feel decidedly
attracted this way,” and entered the door over which was to be seen the
Crab, symbolical of the fourth sign, Cancer.

As Ione passed through the doorway, the Princess said, “I wonder what
sign will attract me.”

“I think you will like Virgo best,” replied the Brother, and so it
proved, for they all passed the fifth door over which they saw the Lion
and when they neared the sixth entrance, that of Virgo, represented by a
beautiful carved figure of a virgin, the Princess said, “You are right,
Brother, if this is Virgo, for I want to enter here, so good-bye.”

After leaving Virgo, they passed the door over which was seen the scales
or balance representing the seventh sign, Libra; the one over which a
huge serpent was curled, representing the eighth sign, Scorpio, one over
which was to be seen the Archer, with his bow and arrow, the ninth sign,
Sagittarius, then past Capricornus, symbolized by the Goat, on to the
eleventh sign, Aquarius, the Water-Bearer. Here the Prince paused. “This
is my sign,” he said, “for it is the first I have felt drawn toward.”

“You are right,” replied the Brother. “It is yours and I will enter with
you and see what the others think of their respective signs. You have
made the complete round of the signs with the exception of the twelfth,
Pisces, which is symbolized by the Fishes.”

“We are glad to see you at last, Prince,” Harold cried. “We thought
perhaps you were hard to please and could not find a sign to suit you.”

“Oh, no,” he replied, “but I had to almost complete the circle before I
found where I belonged.”

“Now,” said the Brother, “I will tell you in a few words some of your
inclinations, according to your signs, but you must remember that these
will be greatly modified or accentuated as the case may be, according to
the position which different planets held at the hour of your births. It
would take too long to calculate planetary positions and give you an
exact reading of your future, so I will confine myself to what the birth
sign shows for each. I will commence with Mrs. Fredericks.”

“Oh! Oh!” laughed Ione, “For mercy’s sake don’t call me Mrs. It sounds
so grown up and queer. Please call me Ione.”

“Very well then, Ione. Being born under the sign Cancer which belongs to
the water division you will largely partake of the nature of that
element and will be changeable and restless, having many ups and downs
in fortune and position, also dangers especially of captivity. Journeys
or voyages are certain to be frequent and long. You are frequently in
danger from falls or hurts from horses, even wounds by human hands are
to be feared. As to your inclinations you are gifted with a fertile
imagination and you delight in strange scenes and in adventure. You can
easily adapt yourself to both places and people, the friendship and
attachment of others is an imperative need of your nature. You are
discreet and independent and very capable in a variety of ways. As the
Moon has great influence over the tides, so too it will strongly
influence you, causing you to feel elated and happy then correspondingly
gloomy and depressed. But the strongest characteristic of this sign is
the sympathy it inspires and the love for home and children. You are
very intuitive and can be governed by love rather than ruled by fear.
You are impatient of control and have little sympathy or liking for
narrow, conventional people, while very fond of the beautiful whether in
nature or in art, having decidedly artistic tastes. Your astral colors
are green and russet brown. Your jewels, the emerald and black onyx.”

[Illustration:

  THEY WERE SOON GLIDING THROUGH CANAL AFTER CANAL

  (p. 128)
]

“But you have not told me any of my faults,” said Ione.

“These I never tell with this kind of a reading. I only tell them when I
give the influence of the planets.”

“Mercury read Harold’s horoscope, so he can’t have his told again but we
should like to hear what you can tell the Princess,” said Ione.

“Very well! She is modest, reticent and must be well known to be well
understood as she keeps her talents in the background and never obtrudes
them upon people. She is an exceptionally good nurse as her hands
possess and impart a soothing, magnetic influence. She is kind and
agreeable in company and very confiding where affection is given. She
naturally inspires the confidence of her friends and will be the
recipient of many secrets which she will loyally keep. She is well
endowed mentally, is ingenious and even-tempered, not easily angered but
reasonable and just in her disposition. Long voyages in search of wealth
or in connection with property in foreign countries, are indicated.
Frequent changes of residence are shown, and residences or property in
two places. A goodly share of this world’s goods will fall to her share,
for her symbol the Virgin or the Gleaner promises much. With thrift and
an economical nature she combines an almost clairvoyant power of
discrimination and foresight. She must be known to be appreciated.”

After giving these short readings, the Brother asked if they would
partake of some light refreshments, assuring them that if they did not
like what was served they could not but be pleased with the beautiful
scene which would be laid before them.

They gladly assented and he quickly led them from the Temple to the
water’s edge where lay a magnificent gondola which they entered and in
which they were soon gliding through canal after canal until at last
they shot out from under a low hanging balcony into a Court of Honor,
lighted by myriads upon myriads of colored lamps and found themselves
surrounded by dozens and dozens of other gondolas floating or at rest
while their occupants, leaning back in graceful poses, listened to the
most sublime music mortal ears had ever heard. The musicians sat in
beautiful boat-shaped baskets made of flowers and suspended in air by
most beautiful, silken balloons that floated overhead carrying various
colored lamps and giving the scene the appearance of hundreds of
fireflies flitting here and there.

In the center of this Court of Honor was an island on which was a
pavilion of peculiar but beautiful design where refreshments were
served. This Court was so large that the magnificent buildings that
surrounded it were seen but faintly, which added greatly to the scene as
they seemed wrapped in a bluish purple mist, with only a white column
showing here and there lit by the reflection of some colored light. Here
one saw a pink fluted column half wreathed in mist; there another
glistening with a pale, green color, while in the cool depths of the
water on which they were floating could be seen reflections of the
entire scene as in a mirror.

Golden statues of females holding torches in their upraised arms lit
this gloriously beautiful court at regular intervals; broad steps led to
the water’s edge at the gondola landings, while magnificent colossal
statues of animals on broad pedestals stood as if guarding the
waterways.

“Oh! how beautiful!” they all exclaimed in tones of subdued ecstacy.

After they had feasted their eyes upon this view and had listened to the
divine strains of music that were wafted to them on gentlest breezes,
the Brother gave a signal to the gondolier to take them to the island.
While seated here he asked many questions about Earth and seemed greatly
interested in what they related. Then he told them what great changes
had taken place since he had lived there, but what astonished them most
was that he had been an astrologer on the lost island of Atlantis, and
that he had been on top of a high tower when the island was submerged.
“There has never been or ever will be such magnificent men and women as
lived then,” concluded the Brother, “for so much sin and disease has
crept into the world that it has destroyed the race physically and
morally to a great extent.”

Presently the old man spoke again.

“Have you heard of ambrosia that the gods lived upon? Well, I am going
to offer you some of it with some of our wafers.”

After tasting the ambrosia Ione said, “It tastes like the honey from a
flower wet with dew and has the bouquet of rose and violets, while it
makes one feel as if every drop of blood in him was a living cell of
life and joy.”

“I don’t wonder the gods were so powerful,” said Harold, “if they lived
on this nectar, for it certainly is the most delicious thing I ever
tasted.”

This praise greatly pleased the Brother. “Look in the west,” he said,
pointing his finger to indicate where the west was, up among the clouds.

They looked and then caught their breath. Forming a background to this
beautiful Court of Honor was what appeared to be the lights of an Aurora
Borealis while spanning it all was a rainbow of dazzling brightness.

“When these lights appear,” said Mercury, “it is a signal that I must
return to my island home shortly and as I want you to see the Milky Way
and several independent islands we have in space I think we had best bid
adieu to the Brother and hasten on.” With many hand grasps and farewells
they bade the Brother good-bye and once more floated off into the blue
ether, wrapped in their magic robes.




                              CHAPTER XII.


The Sun’s Satellite Island was most glorious to behold, being bathed in
dancing sunbeams which twirled in and around everything and threw a veil
of splendor over all. This was called the Isle of Gold, as it looked
like one gigantic ball of that precious metal when seen from afar. Gold
mines abounded, formed as it seemed of petrified sunbeams. The flowers
and leaves of plants and trees opened and shut at the rising and setting
of the Sun as do the lotus and marigold. The birds too, sang at sunrise
to herald the coming of the messenger of day. A great many large animals
were seen here, such as the lion, wolf, bear, bull, and ox. The people
were broad-minded, whole-souled, and cheerful, their one aim in life
being to make others happy.

From the Sun Island they went to the island under the Moon, an island
locked in the grip of perpetual slumber. What a contrast they found! It
was like going from life to death. It had been struck by a blighting
blast and everything had been turned to stone; even the trees, birds,
and beasts were petrified, although they had retained their natural
colors. No one lived here and the only persons seen were visitors from
other islands, and these were generally of a melancholy, despondent turn
of mind, and they moved about like ghosts, in shroud-like white robes.

After our travelers had visited all of the planets’ Satellite Islands,
Ione said:

“Why! I never thought of it before, but if all of the planets have
satellite or tributary islands the Earth must, also.”

“You are right,” said Mercury. “Earth has its Satellite Islands but
instead of one it has many, and they revolve around the Earth from east
to west. Opposite each zone out in space revolves an island
corresponding in temperature and in vegetation to the zone it represents
and all of these are connected with the earth by rainbow bridges which
appear and disappear as there are souls that wish to pass over to any of
them.

“The passport to these islands is a pure heart full of love and sympathy
for everything that lives and breathes. None other can pass over the
frail rainbow bridges to these islands which are called the ‘Isles of
the Blest.’ Many people have seen these rainbow bridges when they have
been spanned for the passage of a soul to one of the islands but they
have not known that instead of the pot of gold, which children have been
told was to be found at the other end, there was one of the most
beautiful, peaceful, quiet islands that ever floated in space. On the
one opposite the Temperate Zone spirits live that prefer that
temperature, while those who prefer cold weather go to the island
opposite the Frigid Zone, and so on, for there is a climate suited to
every taste, and because of this every one is happy and contented, being
in a congenial atmosphere which is conducive to joy and contentment.

“No growling over the weather such as is heard on Earth, is ever
indulged in here. Spirits always live with those who are congenial and
have tastes similar to their own, so no quarreling is ever heard,
neither are divorces ever necessary.

“The most desirable place of all is that island opposite and tributary
to the Temperate Zone, for here everything is temperate like the
climate, neither too hot nor yet too cold. The inhabitants are high
spirited, joyous, and happy, being employed from morning till night in
making others happy.

“Deceit, lying, stealing, and anger are all unknown here, so you see, it
is very appropriately named The Isle of the Blessed,” concluded Mercury.

By this time they had reached Do-As-You-Please Land.

“What queer-looking people and houses they have here!” said Ione. “No
two persons are dressed alike nor are there two houses the same size or
color. There is a queer-looking house over there and no two sides are
painted the same color.”

“Oh! goodness! look at that funny hat that woman is wearing. It is like
a small parasol with the stick cut off and when she enters a building
she pulls a string and it shuts up,” said the Princess.

“Yes,” answered Ione, “but look at that woman with the laced-in waist,
high-heeled slippers and huge bustle and panniers. She is talking to
that tall, slim woman with flat chest and clothes made almost skin
tight. Why do the inhabitants of this land dress so differently?” asked
Ione.

“Because this is the Land of Do-As-You-Please and every one dresses
according to his or her particular idea of comfort or beauty. Come and I
will show you some of the queerest homes you ever looked at.”

They were loth to leave the queer-looking, peculiar people even to see
their more peculiar houses, but finally started to walk down the
principal residence street. They saw children dressed in the funniest
clothes that mortal mind ever thought of or designed. Some had rubber
suits so that if it rained or they fell in the water they would not get
wet. Others were dressed in silk, satin and laces or Little Lord
Fauntleroy styles. Still others were bare-footed with only a calico slip
for a dress. Some of the mothers had their hair done up high on the head
or in a mass of curls and puffs, others wore it parted in the middle and
brushed so smoothly that a fly alighting upon it would slip and break
its neck. But the houses! How queer and quaint they were built after
original designs of the owners. One, for instance, a yellow frame with
white trimmings had one large long room on the ground floor with a high
square tower on one corner, four stories high, with steps from the
outside. This we called the Light-House.

“Well, of all homely houses this is the homeliest!” said Harold. “I
wonder what they do in rainy weather with the steps on the outside!”

The man who lived next door evidently believed the only way to build a
house was to have all the rooms on the ground floor so as to do away
with climbing stairs.

The next man had few windows and small ones at that, seeming to like a
cool, dark house; while his next door neighbor delighted in light and
windows and had so many that his house was called the glass house; and
so on, and so on. One liked one thing, another liked its opposite and
each built as he pleased.

The grounds surrounding these houses were quite as characteristic of
different tastes as the houses. Some yards were laid out in set
flower-beds, others with the flowers running wild and untrained while
still others had not a flower or shrub to break the even roll of the
grass-sown lawn.

Some of the people had their meals served three times a day, some four
times, and some only twice. Some went to bed with the chickens and got
up with the Sun while others went to bed at Sunrise, after a night of
merry-making or dancing. Some believed in study, others in passing the
time as best one can only looking out for the fun of the moment; while
still others thought only of the future; and, as there are no Mrs.
Grundys, each one did as he pleased and no unpleasant or unkind remarks
were made.

All the inhabitants attend strictly to their own business and let others
do the same.

“After all, then, these queer people living in their quaint houses have
one custom which it would be well for our Earth people to emulate,” said
the Prince, in which all the rest of the party laughingly acquiesced.




                             CHAPTER XIII.


To the east of the North Star our travelers saw a beautiful rose-tinted
island and, on consulting Mercury, found it to be the Isle of Candy. On
it everything was composed of sweets of some kind. Chocolate took the
place of soil, while the benches in the parks were made of twisted
molasses candy. Soda waters of different shades and color filled the
fountains and looked beautiful as well as inviting as they sparkled in
the sunlight. The summer-houses were made of peanut candy representing
spotted stone, and the lovely little pagodas throughout the park were of
white paste all fluted and carved. The very gravel and walks were made
of mixed candies resembling different colored pebbles.

In the very centre of the island was a marvelous castle of sparkling
rock candy while its water-pipes ran lemonade, wine and sparkling
champagne. A lovely rose-bush clambered over its white porch and on this
bush were beautiful pink roses all of candy. This castle was situated on
a knoll that sloped to a miniature lake of clear mineral water while on
its surface floated tiny canoes of sassafras and cinnamon bark. On the
same lake were trim little steamers made of cream candy with striped
peppermint sticks for smoke-stacks. On the banks of this lake were
candied violets and crystalized sour-grass. Everything to be seen both
far and near was a perfect imitation of some natural object. There were
candy animals and birds in the park and, had you breakfasted in the
castle, you would have been served with candy mutton-chops and candy
eggs on candy toast.

“Did you ever see anything so perfectly sweet in all your life?” cried
the girls in chorus.

“No, we never did since it is all candy and consequently would be
sweet,” said Harold.

“This must be where most of the Christmas candies come from,” said the
Princess.

“I wish I could carry away that cherry tree,” said Ione. “See how
perfect it is, its bark of brown maple sugar, its leaves of pistache
candy and its fruit the real cherries candied. My! but they are good,
just taste one.”

After eating all they cared for and drinking at the different fountains,
they went to the edge of the island and then flew away toward what
looked like a large amethyst. Mercury explained that it was “The Isle of
Toys.”

As they approached this island they saw, bordering its coast line, a
diminutive city set on seven hills like ancient Rome. At its wharfs lay
beautiful little steamers, while tiny sailboats went speeding by,
sailing through the blue ether as smoothly as if on the water. They saw
also, hurrying crowds of the prettiest doll-faced people imaginable. And
why should they not be pretty and look like dolls when they _were_
dolls, only living ones that could both walk and talk. Dolls of all
kinds and conditions, Mercury explained, were the only inhabitants of
this Island of Toys.

Back from the coast, in the interior of the isle, lived the large dolls;
in the mountains, the Indian dolls; in the hot part, the African dolls;
in the cold part, the Esquimaux; in the tea-growing district, the
Chinese, and so on, for every race of man was represented by these tiny
creatures who lived, worked, and talked exactly as these races of people
do on Earth. In fact, here was a good place to study the different
peoples of the globe for, as Ione said, “Here you have the whole world
in a nut-shell.”

The dolls that landed from the little steamers at the wharfs represented
as many different nationalities as one sees crossing the renowned bridge
at Constantinople; the one where rumor says one can see every
nationality on the globe pass every hour in the day.

“Ione, do look at that Turkish doll with his baggy, yellow satin
trousers, red fez, and long pipe!” said the Princess.

“Yes, but he is not half as cute as that Chinaman with the long pig-tail
and paper umbrella, who is fanning himself as he walks,” she answered.

“I feel like a giant when I look down upon these tiny people,” said
Harold. “I am afraid we may step on some of them. The largest one I have
yet seen does not exceed six inches in height.”

“There live on the farther shore of this island dolls that are as large
as a two-year-old child,” explained Mercury.

“See the dolls getting into street cars and carriages just as we do,
when they get to the end of the wharf,” said the Princess.

“And observe those express wagons loaded with trunks and the drays with
merchandise, while the Clydesdale horses are no bigger than kittens,”
said the Prince.

“Listen,” said Harold, “I thought I heard a locomotive whistle.”

“So you did,” replied Mercury. “Look to your left and you will see the
most complete little depot, with waiting-rooms, lunch counters, ticket
offices, etc., facsimiles of those on Earth.”

“To be sure,” exclaimed Harold, “and there is a turn-table turning an
engine at this moment, with little men working the switches.”

“Had I seen this place when I was a little youngster,” said the Prince,
“I should have had to stop to play with these fascinating little trains,
especially those bound for the stock-yards, loaded with cows and horses
no larger than the animals that furnish a good-sized Noah’s Ark.”

“Let us float over the residence part and see what the houses look like
inside and how these people live,” suggested Ione.

“Suppose we follow this little lady who has just come out of that
dry-goods store and entered her brougham with a coachman and footman on
the box. The brougham drawn by the bang-tailed bay horses,” suggested
the Prince.

“Just the thing,” cried Ione.

“No,” said Harold, “you girls go on while the Prince, Mercury and I go
to the theatre.”

“Very well. We must be off before we lose sight of our little lady’s
brougham. See you later, au revoir!” cried Ione.

Away went the girls, while the boys entered the miniature theatre which
they were only able to do because of the power of their magic robes.

Presently the little brougham turned into a beautiful park where there
were winding drives, fountains, and flowers everywhere, and stopped in
front of a lovely palace of white marble. The footman opened the door of
the brougham, the little lady alighted, passed up the broad steps to the
front entrance and disappeared within the exquisitely carved doors which
were opened by a tiny butler in quaint livery.

With a feeling of disappointment, the girls saw her disappear from view.
“Oh, isn’t she too tiny, sweet, and lovely for words!” exclaimed the
Princess.

“How I wish we were not so large and could go inside to see how her
palace is furnished,” said Ione.

“You have forgotten that our magic robes can make us large or small, as
well as invisible,” replied the Princess.

“To be sure I had. Let us wish ourselves the size of the little lady and
that we may float through one of her windows and be able to explore the
palace unobserved and undisturbed.”

Once inside, the girls found themselves in a marble tessellated hall
with walls lined with ancestral portraits and coats of mail. On either
side of the hall were rooms through the portiers of which they caught
glimpses of rugs of Oriental splendor, brocaded-satin furniture in solid
gold frames, statuettes of Parian marble, while roses and white
hyacinths were everywhere. At the farther end of the hall was the
dining-room with its tapestried walls, old oaken furniture, crystal
chandeliers, dainty silver, and sparkling cut glass.

“Isn’t this magnificent,” exclaimed both girls in a voice of wonder,
“and just as if we were looking through the wrong end of our opera
glasses.”

They next ascended a lovely stairway and entered a boudoir with rose
pink furnishings. Before one of the many miniature mirrors with which
its walls were lined, sat our little lady while a maid was busy in
brushing her fluffy golden hair. The adjoining room was a nursery. Here
in a pretty bassinet, all lace and frills, slept a tiny, rosy-cheeked
baby no larger than one’s little finger; while on the floor near by sat
a small boy doll building a block house, and as he played his nurse read
to him from a diminutive Mother Goose Book.

“Well, I declare! They have Mother Goose even in Toy Land!” exclaimed
Ione.

They next descended to the kitchen where they saw the little cook making
pies no larger than one’s thumb nail and these she baked in a cute
little range as perfect in its mechanism as our larger ones.

“I suppose we must be going or the boys will be waiting for us,” said
the Princess, “but I should enjoy remaining much longer.”

As they floated away they heard the tones of a piano, for the little
daughter of the house was taking her music lesson, while a Canary bird
in its golden-wired cage was trying to outvie her by filling the air
with sweet, flute-like tremulous tones.

They found the boys awaiting them and were soon floating along together.
They saw little farmers plowing the fields; little millers tending the
mill and putting the snowy flour into sacks; tiny cattle grazing in the
pastures, lying in the shade to rest, or standing knee-deep in the
sparkling streams to cool their feet, while on the hill-tops the tiny
windmills spun in this and in that direction with the shifting of the
wind.

[Illustration:

  ALL THE CHORUSES ARE HEAVENLY AND HARMONIOUS

  (p. 178)
]

“Isn’t this the cutest isle you ever saw? There is a toy representative
of everything we have on Earth even to threshing machines and
automobiles,” said Ione.

“It certainly is a most enchanting place. These wee people go about
their business as if they were large men and women,” said the Prince.

“Yes, and they seem as independent as Punch or a pig on ice in the way
they go about it,” answered Harold.

“What are you going to show us next, Mercury, dear, in this storehouse
of space?” questioned the Princess.

“I think I shall take you to the island where all the animals come when
they die.”

“Oh, do!” said Ione. “Perhaps I can then see the pets I used to love.”

“Very well, when I say three, all wish yourselves on the island called
Isle of Pet Animals and we will be there.”




                              CHAPTER XIV.


Grazing on the sunny hillsides, lying asleep under the shade trees, or
frolicking about the meadows they saw, literally, the lion and the lamb
lying down together, for on this peaceful island, where no cruel man’s
gun had ever been fired or angry master’s whip been used, animals of all
kinds lived as peacefully as if belonging to the same happy family.

The island was very large and all changes of climate were common to it
as well as every kind of animal known to man, from the polar bear of the
frigid zone to the hippopotamus of torrid climes, but the most wonderful
thing about all these animals was that they could talk, though each had
a language characteristic of its particular breed as well as a language
common to all, so that each could make his wants or needs known to any
and all about him.

When our young people heard this they were delighted beyond expression.
“I was never so glad of any one thing in all my life as to know that a
time has come when animals can talk and make themselves understood,”
said Ione. “I have always felt that they could and would some day
because the expression of their eyes is so intelligent, and from the
pathetic looks they have often given us, I have been sure they knew our
minds and comprehended our troubles even though they could not tell us
so.”

“Let us show ourselves to them without our magic robes, and see if any
of our old-time pets are here and will recognize us,” said the Prince.

“Bow-wow-wow!” barked a dog behind Ione and turning she saw a noble
Saint Bernard with eyes beaming with love and tail wagging with joy.

“Oh, Hero! you old darling, how are you?” cried Ione.

“I am very well, I thank you,” he replied.

Hearing her old playfellow answer in a deep bass voice came almost as a
shock to Ione even though she had just been told that all animals on
this island talked.

“Why are you so astonished to hear me speak?” he cried. “You used
constantly to say to me ‘Speak, Hero, speak, I know you can talk if you
try!’”

“Yes; I know, Hero, but now that you do talk, it seems strange and you
must give me time to get used to it. Did you always understand
everything I said to you?”

“Indeed I did, and it nearly broke my heart when you asked me to speak
and I could not. If you will come with me I will show you around and you
can see other pets you used to have on Earth.”

When they turned to go they saw her Indian pony that had been her almost
constant companion while with the Indians.

“And here is Whistle!” she exclaimed, patting her pony, so named because
he made the wind whistle by as he ran, he was so fleet-footed. “You
dear, dear pony. I am too rejoiced for words to see you again, for I
never expected to lay eyes on you again.”

“All I can say, Sweet-Face, is that I am delighted to know that you
escaped from the Indians, for I heard that they were going to force you
to marry Mud Face when he returned from his hunting trip, the trip on
which Mr. Harold killed him. I had made up my mind to run away with you
and try to reach the nearest settlement before I would see you married
to that cruel fiend, even if you thought I was going crazy for not
obeying the pull on my reins. We ponies as well as other animals are
often misunderstood when we try in our own dumb way to help our masters
and mistresses, for they cannot always interpret our actions and
signals, so often think us disobedient when we are really trying to
serve them.”

“You dearest darling!” exclaimed Ione, “to think that you were trying to
plan a way to save me and I did not even know that they intended
marrying me.”

“I knew you did not, but I overheard it by chance, as I grazed
peacefully about while listening to Mud Face and Old Heron Feather talk,
wrapped in their blankets near the camp-fire.”

“Oh! here come my pet doves,” she cried, as a flock of white pigeons
alighted on her head, shoulders and outstretched hands. “You beauties!
Where did you come from and how do you like it up here where you never
need to have a fear of being stoned or shot?”

Looking up, she saw Harold riding off on a pet horse he used to own,
while the Prince was petting an elephant he used to ride in processions
in Siam. The Princess had her arms around the neck of a gazelle and all
this time Mercury stood near smiling to see them all so happy.

“Oh mercy! here comes a bear out of the woods,” cried the Princess as
she ran toward the Prince for protection. But Mercury quieted her fears
by telling her that it was perfectly harmless as were all the rest of
the animals here, even to the usually ferocious Bengal tigers.

“I am sorry, but am afraid I must hurry you,” said Mercury, “if you wish
to visit all the places yet to be seen.”

“Oh! do we have to go?” said Ione. “I am so sorry to leave my old pets
so soon. I would dearly like to take them back to Earth with me.”

“So do I feel sorry to part with them so soon,” said the Prince; “but it
is a great comfort to know that they all live again and that we shall
see them again some day.”

Then away they all flew. Their next stopping place, Mercury told them,
was to be the Frost King’s Isle.

Directly over the North Pole is the island of the Frost King, glistening
in the sun like countless diamonds, one mass of pure white snow, frost
and ice. Every tree is draped with lace-like festoons of frost and ice;
every river is clear as crystal and frozen hard; while the Ice King’s
palace is built of blocks of glistening ice. Before the entrance are
couchant lions of solid ice. The carving round doors and windows, like
chiseled marble apples, pears, and grapes, was all done by Jack Frost.
The people of the Isle were dressed in white furs. The only animals were
white polar bears, white spitz dogs, and white birds. The combined
effect of all this dazzling white was beautiful as a dream, and all was
greatly enhanced when colored lights were seen twinkling under the
snow-capped windows.

As our travelers sped past, Ione said, “This is the coldest region we
ever saw, now please show us the hottest one you have.”

“Very well,” Mercury replied. “Wish yourselves over the equator on the
Isle of Fire and you will find yourselves in a warmer place than you
have even dreamed of.” Almost before this wish had been formed they
found themselves gasping for breath on the Fire Island.

All around them were bonfires, while in the distance a volcano belched
forth fire and hot lava. The streams were liquid fire, with blue flames
rising from them, and the shores of the rivers were red hot sand. They
did not tarry long on this Isle for their human lungs could not endure
the heat for long and they begged to be taken away before they
suffocated.

The next place they visited was the Isle of Vinegar, so named because
everything there was sour. The faces of all the people looked wrinkled,
sour and yellow from eating so many sour things and drinking nothing but
lemonade and lime juice. After taking a drink of lemonade without any
sugar in it (for sugar is unknown in this land) our young friends
started on their way for the Milky Way.

“I am glad that people on Earth like more than one thing. It is much
nicer having a variety of things, sweet, sour, bitter and medium than
all one kind. After all, medium things and people are generally best.
Those who are not too gentle, too cross, too learned, too stupid, too
lively, too quiet but are a combination of each and all, these are the
most congenial people to live with,” sagely remarked Ione.




                              CHAPTER XV.


“We will now go to the Milky Way, that broad stream of sparkling stars
that sweeps through the heavens like a mighty river and on either side
of which are reared the palaces of the gods, goddesses, and heroes of
Greece and Rome,” said Mercury.

“What! You don’t mean to tell us that the gods and goddesses of old live
here?” exclaimed Ione.

“Certainly I do; and they live in regal splendor as of yore. What is
more, you are going to be in time to see them start on their yearly
journey to Mount Olympus. The procession they form is considered one of
the grandest sights of the heavens and one which none of the planet
people would voluntarily miss seeing. The gods and goddesses, heroes and
heroines sweep down the Milky Way in magnificent floats or barges of
gold and silver incrusted with precious stones, while those looking on
line the shores or sit in boats at anchor, for no one is allowed the
freedom of the Milky Way while the procession is passing,” said the
guide.

“Oh, what a spectacle it will be!” said the Princess.

“It certainly is one of the most gorgeously magnificent pageants I have
ever witnessed,” said Mercury.

“Are you sure we shall be there in time?” asked Ione. “I would not miss
it for worlds.”

“Yes, we can easily reach there if we do not tarry on our way.”

“Well, we will pass things by even if we have to return to see them
later,” said Harold.

“All ready then. One, two, three, and we are off for a cloud bank that
juts out into the Milky Way making a fine point for us to view the
entire procession as it turns the bend,” said the guide.

In less time than it took them to count one, two, three, they were at
their destination and were barely seated when the Princess exclaimed,
“Sh! I hear strains of music,” and looking in the direction from which
the sounds came, they saw a beautiful float gliding smoothly along. On
it were standing twelve youths and twelve maidens playing upon golden
harps and horns. They were crowned with roses, while violets and myrtle
were profusely festooned about them. The youths had only a spotted
leopard skin thrown across their shoulders while the maidens were
attired in filmy white slips with belts of blue ribbon.

Following them came Jupiter in all his royal splendor like some
conquering king or hero. His jeweled chariot was drawn by four
milk-white horses; his robes were royal purple lined with spun gold and
bordered with precious gems. On his head he wore a helmet of gold on
which with outstretched wings rested an eagle—a bird dedicated to him by
the ancients.

Juno, wife of Jupiter and Queen of the Heavens, came next, attended by
her faithful messenger, Iris, with wings of gold and robe of rainbow
hues. She hovered at the side of her mistress who rode in a chariot
drawn by peacocks, her favorite fowls.

Mars followed in a chariot of burnished brass drawn by fiery horses. He
was dressed as a warrior armed for battle with red breast-plate, and
shield upraised. On his war-bonnet perched a woodpecker while at his
feet crouched a wolf. Both the woodpecker and wolf are sacred to Mars.

Twelve white pigeons heralded the approach of Venus in her pink-tinted
shell-chariot emblazoned with emeralds, pearls, and corals, and drawn by
snow-white swans, which were dedicated to her by the ancients. Her robe
was of palest green, sprinkled with pearls and embroidered to represent
seafoam. A magic girdle encircled her waist. In her hands she carried
violets and maidenhair ferns. At her side stood a basket of
pomegranates, sweet pears and figs. As the chariot passed, one could
scent the perfume of thyme, myrtle, and musk, perfumes especially
pleasing to her, as was the flavor of the fruits at her side.

Then came Mercury, son of Jupiter and messenger of the gods, with winged
sandals and tortoise-shell lyre. Slung across his shoulder was his
serpent-entwined wand, one touch of which would awaken those who slept,
or put to sleep those who were awake.

Minerva, daughter of Jupiter, goddess of wisdom and war, and protectress
of the elegant and useful arts, came next. Her barge was appropriately
decorated with the olive branch and fruit. In its bow, half hidden, were
owls (birds of wisdom), and cocks, which were sacred to her memory. On
the corners of her barge were golden plows and rakes, emblems of
agriculture; while here and there were also spinning wheels and
distaffs, emblems of the useful arts. Her warlike tastes were displayed
by her dress, which was a complete suit of armor, the breast-plate of
which was the head of Medusa. She carried a golden staff and looked
magnificently beautiful and strong with commanding figure, noble brow,
and flashing eyes as she stood tall and erect without turning her head
to right or to left as she floated down this silvery stream.

On Diana’s barge was a miniature cave to represent the one in the glade
where the goddess of the chase and the moon used to repair to bathe and
refresh herself after the hunt. Reposing before the cave were her
faithful nymphs and all were listening to the sweet music Apollo, her
twin brother, was drawing from his lute.

Vesta, the goddess of the hearth or home, was seated in front of an
altar before which burned the sacred fire. The barge was festooned in
myrtle and guided by twelve vestal virgins.

Vulcan stood before a fiery furnace in the midst of Lotus trees arranged
to represent a forest.

Ceres, goddess of fruit and cereals, led two oxen yoked to a plow. In
her train were woven heads of golden wheat; under her arm she carried a
cornucopia out of which poured luscious fruits.

Neptune’s barge was drawn by sea-horses with flowing manes. Their
harness was of silver, crusted with pearls. Neptune himself, god of the
sea, wore a rich mantle embroidered with sea anemones and shells. On his
head he wore a crown of pearls and emeralds while in his right hand he
held his trident, studded with precious gems gathered from the depths of
ocean.

Following Neptune came Penelope, spinning the web which at night she
would unravel, thus representing those who always work but never
accomplish anything.

After Penelope rode Bellerophon on his celebrated charger, Pegasus, the
winged horse.

Then came Atlas bearing the globe upon his shoulders.

And next, Pandora, with her fatal box.

Aurora, goddess of dawn, followed, sitting in her chariot of gold drawn
by pure white horses. She was clothed in garments only equaled in color
and splendor by the tints of the Aurora Borealis.

Following Aurora came Perseus, with Minerva’s shield, Pluto’s helmet,
and Mercury’s winged shoes and wand.

Then Eolus with the contrary winds tied up in the hide of an ox;
followed by Somnus, god of sleep, smelling a poppy.

Bacchus, the god of wine, passed with overflowing cup in hand and wreath
of grapes and leaves upon his head.

And now, Medusa with hair of hissing serpents; Rhea, the goddess of
Earth, leading a tame tiger to show how she could tame the beasts of the
forest; then Flora, the goddess of flowers, scattering a profusion of
flowers and blossoms as she passed.

Hercules, incarnation of strength, now appeared dressed in a lion’s
skin, with its head for a helmet. In one hand he carried his knotted
club, while with the other he led the Arcadian stag with golden antlers
and brazen feet, which he had caught. Behind him came his wife, Hebe,
goddess of youth, carrying her cup of nectar, ready to wait upon the
gods, for that was her office.

Last but not least came Pluto, god of the lower world and of the dead.
None of the goddesses would marry him because it was such a gloomy place
down in Hades where he lived, so one day he kidnapped Proserpine, the
lovely daughter of Ceres, and carried her off to his kingdom. Now he
came riding along in what appeared to be that same chariot drawn by
spirited black horses. By his side sat the sweet-faced Proserpine, Queen
of Hades, and at their feet lay Cerberus, his pet dog, a monster with
three heads and a body covered with snakes in the place of hair. On his
head, Pluto wore a magic helmet which gave him the power of becoming
invisible at will.

Thus they came, following each other in one continuous line as far as
the eye could see.

Our young people watched them until the last one had passed by, then
they too passed on, in search of other sights and scenes.




                              CHAPTER XVI.


After the procession had passed, Mercury turned and said:

“Well! What do you think of it for a spectacular pageant?”

“Think of it?” exclaimed Ione, “I never even dreamed of anything so
beautiful.”

“It even surpasses the royal elephant and camel processions of Siam, in
which all the animals are caparisoned with gold and silver and jewels.
Until I had seen this wonderful procession, I thought nothing could
surpass that,” said the Princess.

“You certainly have given us a treat,” said the Prince and Harold.

“Now, I think you would enjoy boarding a barge and taking a trip along
the Milky Way, visiting some of the strange countries that border it and
inspecting some of the palaces that line this silvery stream on either
side.”

Mercury went to procure a barge for them and soon called to them to come
down and enter it. It was high at the back with a raised divan shaded by
silken curtains and waving palms. The front was high and pointed and
stood well out of the stream of sparkling stars beneath it. Its
trimmings were of purple and gold which fell over the side in graceful
festoons. There were seats for six, two high carved chairs on the divan,
resembling seats on a royal throne, while the others were beneath the
three steps of the raised platform.

Harold and Ione insisted upon the Prince and Princess occupying the
elevated seats and impersonating king and queen while they would sit
beneath them as their loyal subjects, but the Prince and Princess would
not agree to this.

“But don’t you see,” urged Ione, “you were to the purple born, while who
ever heard of a free-born American citizen occupying a throne? Besides
it would be too quiet a proceeding for us and I am sure we would jump up
at the wrong time or upset a chair during an audience if it proved too
tedious.”

“You are mistaken,” said the Prince. “You could rule by right of
judgment and strength while you would have me rule because of the blood
of my ancestors.”

“Let Mercury decide,” said the Princess.

“Very well,” he replied, “in that case I think Harold and Ione should
take the chairs for we are their guests.”

“Good for you, Mercury. You always say the right thing at the right
time,” said the Prince.

So Harold and Ione took the carved seats, and for fun, wished they
_were_ a king and queen, so when the Prince, Princess and Mercury turned
toward them, they were speechless with surprise for a moment, for
instead of two plainly-dressed American citizens, they saw two royal
personages with golden myrtle crowns on their heads, flowing robes of
velvet, and ermine mantles upon their shoulders.

“Well, I declare!” exclaimed the Prince. “You two rival all the kings
and queens I ever saw for beauty and kingly bearing. Where is your
sceptre?”

Harold held up a golden sceptre in the shape of a wand.

All this time they had been floating along on this silent, silvery
stream with its myriads and myriads of silver stars, so tiny and closely
packed together that they looked like molten silver.

The first country at which they landed was called The Land of Peace and
Quietness. Soft, gentle breezes blow across this land, laden with the
perfume of thousands of flowers. No destroying electric storms ever rage
here to disturb the peaceful, quiet, sunlit days. This is the land where
the tired people of Earth come to rest and have peace; peace,
everlasting peace, for those who choose to stop. Here are those who have
had to battle with discord at home and rough usage from the world at
large and now all they ask is to be let alone and to be allowed to rest
and wander through this blessed country, drinking in and enjoying the
beauties and quiet of this blissful land.

Here the grass is always green, the hills wrapped in purple mist over
which float snowy clouds lit by the sun, while all around are shady
groves filled with many birds that trill and warble until it would seem
as if their little throats must burst with joyousness. The silvery
streams purr through the grassy meadows, or sing a joyous song as they
tumble over the rocks down the mountain-side or try to rival the lullaby
of the willow-boughs swaying to and fro above them.

The flowers never die here but as fast as one is plucked another blooms
in its place. No harsh, loud sounds are ever heard, only harmony and
melody float out on the air, resting and strengthening the nerves of the
tired Earth people who come here for peace and quiet.

Just over yonder mountains, further up the stream, is the land called
The Land of Joy. Here everything is hustle and bustle, laughter and fun,
and wherever one goes he meets picnic parties, some riding on hayracks,
others in pleasure-boats, while still others roll by in open carriages.
Brass bands and dance music are heard in every direction, a decided
contrast to the soft, plaintive music heard in the Land of Peace.

Here come the people who never had time to enjoy themselves while upon
Earth, but who constantly longed to go to balls or picnics in the
country, the invalid sister of the society girl or the poor seamstress
who spent her life sewing on the garments of her more favored sisters.
Every day with the rising of the Sun, merry bells announce to the
inhabitants of this land that another day for jolly good fun has
commenced. Every one on the streets is either whistling or singing, too
happy to walk sedately or to keep silent.

“And is there no land of sorrow except Hades?” asked Ione.

“No,” replied Mercury, “there is enough sorrow on Earth to supply all
the spheres were it allowed to pass the air-shed line.

“Along this stream you will find a land to suit every body’s taste, be
it a good one. I think the land most thickly populated is the Land of
Music. Such halls and temples you never beheld and all are filled with
every kind of musical instrument that was ever invented, while all the
choruses are heavenly and harmonious.

“Would you like to travel farther or would you prefer to visit some of
the palaces of the gods and goddesses?” asked Mercury.

“I think we would like to explore that castle set on yonder high cliff,
that looks like a castle on the Rhine, only a thousand times more
beautiful,” said Ione.

“Oh! that one belongs to Jupiter and he always gives feasts when he
returns from his pilgrimage to Mount Olympus. Would you like to return
to the Land of Quietness and Peace and wait until the day of the feast
and then attend it? You have been traveling pretty fast and might like
to rest, or I should say change, for no one who possesses a magic robe
knows what fatigue is.”

“I believe that would be very pleasant,” said Ione and they all returned
to the Land of Peace to wait for the feast. Here they threw themselves
in hammocks under the shade of the trees, lazily listening the while to
the songs of the canaries and nightingales overhead in the boughs. Were
they hungry, all they had to do was to wish for something to eat and
there spread beside them on a pretty, rustic table was a repast, dainty
enough for an angel and substantial enough for a king.

They spent a day and night here and then a swift messenger brought news
that Jupiter would not return to his castle for a week and that the
feast had been postponed.

When our travelers heard this they were greatly disappointed but
concluded not to await his return.

The next morning they again boarded the barge and commenced floating
down the Milky Way, admiring the beautiful scenery and castles that
bordered its shores until they came to its extreme northern limit, when,
chancing to look off toward the North Star, they saw, shining with a
splendor that almost blinded them, what seemed to be a colossal human
eye surrounded by flashing streamers of light that radiated from it in
all directions.

“What is it?” they all whispered in awe.

“You may well ask,” said their guide. “That is The All-Seeing Eye. It is
placed there to remind us that God is in all, through all, and back of
all these wonders we have seen, and also to mark the limit to which a
human being may travel in this space. Thus far and no farther can you go
until you have passed through the gate of death and become immortal. And
here,” continued Mercury, rather sadly, “your journey in the clouds must
end. As a souvenir, you may keep the acorns in which your robes were
encased, but the robes, I am sorry to say, you must leave with me. I
will conduct you to your Elephant and see you safely started on your
return journey to Earth, and then I must also return to my duties, for
my life work is not yet finished.”

When our friends at last commenced their return trip to Earth, Mercury
waved his hands in adieu, and smiling and repeatedly waving, gradually
passed out of sight.


                                The End.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected obvious typographical errors and variations in
      spelling.
 2. Retained archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ON A LARK TO THE PLANETS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
